my
j|vi|i|p
t|s
qass
book|ty6
t
biograph|genealog
and|il|r
descript|histori
of|the
first|congression|district
of
new|jersey
illustr|h
voilj|4e|i
the|lewi|publish|compani
new|york|and|chicago
one thousand, nine hundred
four|prefac
in|this|biograph|histori|the|editori|staflf|as|well|as|the|publish
have|fulli|realiz|the|magnitud|of|the|task|in|the|collect|of|the
materi|there|has|been|a|constant|aim|to|discrimin|care|in|regard
to|the|select|of|subject|those|who|have|been|promin|factor|in
the|public|social|and|industri|develop|of|the|counti|have|been
given|due|recognit|as|far|as|it|has|been|possibl|to|secur|the|requisit
data|name|worthi|of|perpetu|here|it|is|true|have|in|sever|in
stanc|been|omit|either|on|account|of|the|apathi|of|those|concern
or|the|inabl|of|the|compil|to|secur|the|inform|necessari|for|a
symmetr|sketch|but|even|more|pain|have|been|taken|to|secur|ac
curaci|than|were|promis|in|the|prospectus|work|of|this|natur
therefor|are|more|reliabl|and|complet|than|are|the|standard|histori
of|a|countri|the|publish
index
i|and|ii|refer|respect|to|the|first|and|second|volum|and|the|figur|to|the|page
abbott|benjamin|t|i|one hundred and fifty-eight
ackley|coomb|ii|sixty-four
acton|jonathan|w|ii|three hundred and thirty-four
acton|william|h|ii|eighty-eight
adamson|w|j|i|five hundred and seventy-two
alcyon|park|ii|ninety-four
alderman|isaiah|s|i|four hundred and seventy
allen|collin|b|li|thirty-six
allen|edward|l|i|seventy-two
allen|henri|i|five hundred and forty-six
allen|thoma|c|ii|three hundred and fifty
allen|william|c|ii|five hundred and eighty-five
andrew|b|w|ii|two hundred and fifty-nine
apgar|mari|ii|five hundred and seventy-eight
appleg|e|milford|ii|three hundred and twenty-one
applegit|henri|i|three hundred and fifty
armstrong|charl|v|ii|two hundred and twenty-four
armstrong|edward|a|ii|six hundred and two
ashcraft|john|h|ii|one hundred and nineteen
ashcraft|s|f|i|three hundred and ninety-seven
atkinson|charl|p|i|two hundred and twenty-nine
atkinson|warren|ii|three hundred and ninety-six
avi|william|ii|two hundred and fifty-two
ayar|benjamin|s|ii|three hundred and fifteen
ayar|john|g|ii|three hundred and twenty-four
ayr|mauric|i|five hundred and ninety
bacon|isaac|h|li|four hundred and fifty-nine
bacon|joseph|m|ii|five hundred and nineteen
baird|david|ii|six hundred and one
baker|latim|r|ii|four hundred and eighty-four
barber|augustus|s|i|one hundred and ninety-three
barber|robert|l|ii|six hundred
barker|charl|r|ii|three hundred and three
barnett|eli|i|three hundred and thirty-four
baron|de|hirsch|school|i|sixty-two
vbarrett|georg|ii|five hundred and seventy-three
bassett|clemenc|ii|sixty
bassett|walter|s|ii|five hundred and six
bateman|stephen|i|one hundred and seventy-three
batten|charl|p|i|four hundred and fifty-nine
batten|raymond|w|ii|one hundred and seventeen
batten|john|s|ii|two hundred and forty-one
beasley|abner|i|one hundred and twenty|ii|s
beckett|h|d|i|five hundred
beckett|joseph|r|i|s9s
beckett|richard|t|ii|forty-two
bendler|henri|c|ii|forty-eight
bennett|georg|l|ii|one hundred and seventy
bennett|henri|ii|one hundred and twenty-six
bennett|stephen|h|ii|two hundred and fifty-three
bennett|volney|g|ii|s99
bennett|william|j|ii|two hundred and twenty-one
bilderback|smith|i|two hundred and fifty-eight
bispham|john|ii|twelve
black|john|i|three hundred and twenty-three
black|joseph|r|i|two hundred and eighty
bloomfield|joseph|ii|fifteen
bodin|e|c|ii|two hundred and eighty-seven
bodin|j|alfr|ii|three hundred and two
bodin|of|williamstown|the|ii|two hundred and eighty-three
boon|lawrenc|h|i|four hundred and thirty-four
boon|robert|f|i|four hundred and thirty-two
boon|sarah|i|four hundred and thirty-four
boon|joseph|h|ii|one hundred and twenty-three
index
borton|thoma|i|three hundred and eighty-seven
bourgeoi|anderson|ii|five hundred and fifty-five
bourgeoi|edmund|a|ii|forty-one|one
bower|elijah|ii|two hundred and twenty
bowl|harvey|e|ii|two hundred and fifty-six
bradner|john|ii|twenty
bradshaw|alfr|a|i|five hundred and fifty-three
bradway|edward|ii|three hundred and seventy-two
bradway|famili|the|i|i95
brandiff|robert|a|i|five hundred and sixty
brennei|franklin|b|ii|two hundred and eighty-seven
brewer|rufus|ii|three hundred and eighty-one
briar|hill|farm|ii|four hundred and thirty-eight
bridgeton|ii|nine
bridgeton|court|hous|etc|ii|facmg
bridgeton|even|news|i|five hundred and ninety-three
bridgeton|presbyterian|church|ii|fac
ten
brown|william|b|ii|two hundred and fifty-one
biown|w|j|ii|four hundred and forty-nine
buck|r|e|i|two hundred and thirty-six
buck|william|p|ii|three hundred and fifty-eight
budd|s|r|i|five hundred and forty
bugbe|henri|k|ii|two hundred and eight
burt|benjamin|f|ii|two hundred and forty-five
butcher|jame|ii|three hundred and sixty-five
byrn|r|j|i|four hundred and ninety-eight
camden|i|five hundred and thirty-two
campbel|duncan|i|two hundred and ninety-eight
canfield|f|p|ii|three hundred and eighty
cannon|father|ii|one hundred and eighty-six
cape|may|beach|ii|nineteen|cut|face|i
cape|may|courthous|etc|ii|face
carey|a|w|jr|ii|four hundred and seventy-two
carll|lewi|s|ii|three hundred and forty-seven
carney|william|ii|one hundred and twenty-one
carpent|samuel|preston|ii|one hundred and eighty-seven
carpent|william|a|ii|four hundred and eighty-nine
carpent|william|b|i|one hundred and eighteen
caipent|william|h|i|fifty
cair|georg|w|ii|ninety-four
carr|henri|h|ii|one hundred and six
caiter|william|m|ii|loi
casper|joseph|i|eighty-six
casper|famili|the|i|s8i
cassaday|charl|i|3i3
cassaday|frank|l|ii|five hundred and eighty-three
cassaday|nlicajah|b|ii|three hundred and sixty-nine
casses|antonio|ii|one hundred and eighty-six
cattail|william|c|i|four hundred and seventy-seven
chamney|nathaniel|ii|four
champion|ira|s|i|three hundred and fourteen
champion|joseph|g|i|two hundred and seventy-nine
cheesman|j|p|i|one hundred and twenty-six
chester|jame|m|i|two hundred and sixty
chester|lewi|s|i|two hundred and sixty-three
chew|matthia|m|i|four hundred and seventy-four
chew|robert|c|i|three hundred and eighty-eight
chew|thoma|w|i|three hundred and ninety-four
church|horatio|h|ii|one hundred and eighty-three
church|william|h|ii|one hundred and sixty-three
clark|famili|the|one|four hundred and seventy-seven
clark|henri|c|ii|one hundred and sixty
clark|joseph|a|ii|3i3
clark|robert|c|i|three hundred and sixty-seven
clark|richard|j|ii|47i
cleaver|thoma|ii|one hundred and eight
clement|abel|b|ii|five hundred and ninety
cliver|amariah|f|i|three hundred and thirty-seven
clymer|robert|s|ii|four hundred and forty-two
cobb|joseph|b|ii|two hundred and seventeen
coftin|john|h|i|five hundred and twenty-six
cohen|nathan|a|i|three hundred and seventy-eight
cold|spring|presbyterian|church|ii|twenty
cut|face|sixteen
cole|ira|ii|two hundred and seventy-four
cole|richman|ii|ninety-five
collin|albert|i|three hundred and fifty-four
collin|charl|e|i|three hundred and sixty-six
collin|jacob|p|i|one hundred and sixty-two
collin|nichola|i|two hundred and seventy-seven
collin|william|i|two hundred and thirty-seven
colson|william|m|ii|two hundred and two
index
conov|jame|v|i|three hundred and seventy-three
cook|joseph|i|one hundred and sixteen
coomb|henri|i|three hundred and thirty-eight
cooper|alfr|ii|eighty-two
cooper|georg|b|ii|eighty-three
cooper|john|h|b|i|three hundred and nine
cornwalh|headquart|ii|face|twelve
corson|charl|b|i|one hundred and fifty-six
covington|thoma|p|ii|h
cox|william|ii|thirty-three
cozen|william|h|ii|five hundred and fifty-two
craft|georg|h|ii|two hundred and thirty-three
craven|john|v|i|fifty-one
craven|thoma|j|i|sixty-seven
cress|georg|h|ii|three hundred and sixteen
cress|lewi|m|ii|three hundred and ten
crowel|godfrey|m|ii|four hundred and six
cumberland|counti|build|ii|face|ten
cunningham|charl|i|four hundred and eighty-three
cunningham|hugh|ii|gr
cunningham|thoma|ii|five hundred and eighty-seven
cunningham|william|ii|five hundred and eighty-four
d
dare|georg|i|loi
davidson|jame|j|li|22g
davidson|thoma|w|ii|one hundred and fifty-nine
davi|david|ii|four
davi|david|joseph|i|eighty-four
davi|jess|c|ii|three hundred and eight
davi|jame|w|ii|two hundred and sixty-six
davi|john|q|ii|three hundred and nineteen
davi|richard|m|a|ii|three hundred and twenty-nine
dawson|isaac|w|ii|one hundred and ninety-two
de|hart|s|p|i|two hundred and seventy-eight
dehner|paul|ii|two hundred and forty-two
delaney|jeremiah|p|i|two hundred and thirty
dell|edgar|f|i|five hundred and eighty-seven
densten|benjamin|l|ii|four hundred and fifty
de|rouss|loui|t|ii|three hundred and thirty-seven
derrickson|isaac|ii|one hundred and thirty-three
diament|walter|f|ii|four hundred and five
dick|samuel|ii|22i
dickeson|j|hildreth|ii|two|zero
dickinson|mahlon|d|i|one hundred and seventy
diverti|william|ii|two hundred and seventy-seven
donovan|thoma|i|two hundred and thirty-eight
dorrel|daniel|p|ii|three hundred and twenty-two
dorrel|georg|w|ii|one hundred and ninety-nine
douglass|harri|s|i|one hundred and thirty
douglass|john|s|ii|three hundred and ninety-nine
downer|arthur|ii|two hundred and sixty-eight
down|isaac|m|ii|forty-three
down|john|l|ii|three hundred and seventy-five
down|lorenzo|a|ii|five hundred and fifty-eight
du|boi|jerediah|ii|two hundred and fifty-eight
duboi|john|w|i|four hundred and fifty-three
duboi|samuel|j|ii|two hundred and thirty-six
duer|jame|ii|thirty-four|thirty-five
dufifel|c|l|i|one hundred and forty-three
duffield|william|d|li|five hundred and twenty-one
duke|franci|k|i|three hundred and ninety-five
dunham|jame|e|i|two hundred and ninety-five
dunn|c|gilmor|ii|thirty
dunn|john|ii|four
dunn|john|c|ii|four hundred and ninety-seven
dunn|john|c|jr|ii|four hundred and ninety-three
dunn|samuel|w|ii|four hundred and ninety-six
earmark|for|cow|in|earli|day|ii|three hundred and ten
edgarton|warren|p|i|two hundred and seventy
edmund|down|sr|i|one hundred and thirteen|one hundred and fourteen
edward|lewi|ii|three hundred and four
eldredg|charl|p|li|four hundred and eighty-seven
eldredg|elli|c|ii|three hundred and sixty-three
eldredg|ephraim|ii|two hundred and forty-seven
eldredg|jame|w|ii|five hundred and thirty-seven
eldredg|thoma|ii|one hundred and ninety-five
eldridg|j|j|ii|three hundred and eighty-seven
eldridg|william|h|ii|one hundred and thirty-six
elli|job|b|i|three hundred and eighty-two
elmer|david|p|ii|three hundred and eight
elmer|gazett|and|time|ii|one hundred and thirty-one
elmer|m|e|church|ii|seven
essler|georg|ii|fifty-five
index
evan|david|i|five hundred and ten
evan|edward|f|ii|three hundred and forty-six
evan|mari|p|i|one hundred and five
ewe|john|i|five hundred and eight
ewe|samuel|e|i|five hundred and forty-nine
parr|edward|l|ii|ninety
penwick|john|i|seventeen|ii|four
penwick|and|the|indian|i|eighteen
perguson|benjamin|m|i|four hundred and eighty-eight
ferrel|thoma|m|i|two hundred and fifty-two
fisher|robert|ii|three hundred and ninety-four
fisler|joseph|ii|one hundred and thirty-five
fithian|alexand|r|i|five hundred and eighty-six
fithian|franci|r|i|five hundred and seventy
fithian|frank|s|ii|two hundred and ninety
fithian|j|hampton|i|four hundred and eighteen
plitcraft|william|z|ii|ninety-seven
fogg|albert|s|ii|two hundred and forty-nine
fogg|famili|the|ii|five hundred and seventy-six
fogg|j|hildreth|i|five hundred and forty-three
fogg|robert|s|i|three hundred and fifty-six
fogg|samuel|i|four hundred and seventy-six
forcum|william|e|i|three hundred and nineteen
ford|charl|c|i|four hundred and thirty-nine
ford|harri|t|i|four hundred and ninety-three
ford|s|hotel|i|five hundred and forty-four
fortin|ellwood|k|ii|five hundred and sixty-five
foster|edwin|d|ii|one hundred and sixty-six
foster|samuel|p|ii|one hundred and thirty
fowler|lewi|w|ii|five hundred and seventy-five
fox|frederick|ii|four hundred and twenty-eight
frazier|georg|w|ii|five hundred and seventy-one
frea|henri|j|i|two hundred and eighty-four
frea|william|j|i|five hundred and sixty-one
french|john|t|i|four hundred and ninety-four
french|joseph|g|ii|one hundred
friend|meet|hous|i|face|seventeen
friend|societi|pioneer|ii|four
fri|h|p|i|three hundred and twenty-four
g
gardin|asa|i|three hundred and forty-three
garretson|luther|t|ii|two hundred and forty-six
garrison|nelson|i|one hundred and thirty-one
gayner|edward|j|i|one hundred and eighty-one
gayner|frederick|c|ii|four hundred and twenty-three
gayner|john|i|one hundred and seventy-six
gifford|thoma|p|i|two hundred and fifty
gill|john|r|ii|three hundred and eighty-three
gillingham|jame|i|eighty-seven
gilman|uriah|i|one hundred and forty-four
gilmour|h|l|i|five hundred and ninety-one
gleeson|joseph|s|i|four hundred and thirty-five
gleeson|william|i|four hundred and thirty-five
gloucest|counti|almshous|ii|thirteen
goff|famili|the|i|five hundred and four
golder|jame|w|ii|one hundred and sixty-two
golder|william|w|ii|four hundred and twenty-six
goodwin|famili|the|i|forty-six
goslin|thoma|s|ii|five hundred and thirty-five
grace|john|w|i|one hundred and ninety-two
graham|john|p|i|two hundred and seventy-five
green|john|ii|five hundred and sixty-two
green|joseph|m|ii|three hundred and fifty-four
grey|martin|p|ii|fifty-seven
grey|samuel|h|ii|five hundred and fourteen
grier|charl|b|ii|three hundred and fifty-seven
grimshaw|oliv|ii|one hundred and seventy-four
groff|john|h|i|one hundred and forty
guest|charl|b|ii|one hundred and thirty-eight
guest|harri|i|four hundred and thirteen
guy|richard|ii|four
gwynn|robert|i|eighty-nine
gwynn|robert|jr|i|gi
h
hain|david|p|i|four hundred and seventy-eight
hain|hane|famili|the|i|two hundred and forty-one
hall|famili|the|i|five hundred and twenty-two
hall|georg|m|ii|two hundred and seventy-nine
halsey|l|m|ii|five hundred and twenty-two
hamilton|john|d|ii|four hundred and thirty-five
hampton|georg|ii|two hundred and ninety-eight
hancock|benjamin|i|four hundred and thirty-six
hancock|hous|i|face|seventeen
index
hancock|richkrd|ii|four
hand|aaron|w|two hundred and seventy
hand|alex|ii|i07
hand|joseph|f|ii|five hundred and fifty-seven
hand|robert|e|i|four hundred and thirty
hane|emili|i|two hundred and forty-one
hane|joseph|h|n|two hundred and ninety-nine
hannold|john|wood|ii|su
hannold|william|h|ii|two hundred and five
hard|benjamin|ii|33i
harker|william|s|i|three hundred and ninety-nine
harmoni|glass|work|ii|you
harn|john|f|ii|two hundred and thirty-two
harri|amo|i|two hundred and thirteen
harri|benjamin|e|ii|two hundred and seven
harri|famili|the|one|two hundred and thirteen
harri|langdon|w|ii|eighty-six
harri|quinton|p|one|two hundred and thirteen
harri|sheppard|i|5i5
harri|william|h|ii|four hundred and sixty
harvey|cedar|i|sixty-five
hawn|charl|w|i|five hundred and forty-two
hay|nelson|s|ii|two hundred and twelve
hazleton|j|c|i|five hundred and sixty-five
headley|benjamin|a|eleven|five hundred and seventy-seven
hebenth|william|ii|three hundred and seventy-eight
hedg|samuel|ii|four
helm|hanc|i|four hundred and fifty-eight
helm|j|clark|ii|two hundred and forty-four
helm|william|j|i|four hundred and seventy-three
henderson|jame|ii|eighty-two
hendrickson|daniel|f|ii|two hundred and eighty
heritag|albert|i|four hundred and twenty-three
heritag|benjamin|ii|four hundred and fifty-four
heritag|charl|i|i94
heritag|charl|s|ii|one hundred and forty
heritag|j|down|i|one hundred and forty-one
heritag|walter|ii|five hundred and two
hew|alexand|b|i|four hundred and forty-seven
hew|mitchel|i|four hundred and forty-seven
higgin|georg|ii|35i
higgin|samuel|l|ii|three hundred and fifty-five
hildreth|edmund|s|i|five hundred and forty-seven
hildreth|jame|m|e|i|four hundred and four
hillegass|eugen|z|i|five hundred and twenty-seven
hilliard|william|t|i|forty-four
hire|charl|i|three hundred and eighty
hire|charl|r|ii|two hundred and twenty-eight
hire|georg|i|2c
hire|lucius|e|ii|39i
hitchner|adam|i|three hundred and fifty-three
hitchner|charl|f|i|i33
hitchner|georg|ii|three hundred and sixty-seven
hitchner|hiram|i|i35
hitchner|jacob|sr|ii|i75
hitchner|john|i|one hundred and thirty-six
hitchner|john|j|ii|three hundred and forty-five
hitchner|r|m|i|i24
hitchner|wilbert|b|i|one hundred and twenty-seven
horner|georg|ii|one hundred and fifty-two
hous|jacob|i|four hundred and forty
hous|jonathan|ii|one hundred and seventy-six
howey|jame|s|ii|three hundred and thirty-eight
hoyt|orvill|e|ii|five hundred and seventy-eight
hugh|elli|i|two hundred and sixty-six
hulick|georg|s|ii|fifty-six
humphrey|edward|b|i|twenty-one|eleven
hunter|jame|ii|sixty-three
hunter|william|c|i|five hundred and fifty-four
hurff|aaron|ii|sixty-six
hurff|thoma|w|ii|four hundred and sixty-five
i
ireland|edward|s|ii|three hundred and ninety-eight
ireland|hammond|s|i|i3
iszard|ira|ii|six hundred and thirty-three
iszard|s|stanger|i|four hundred and seventy-two
iszard|william|ii|five hundred and forty-three
ivin|mahlon|f|i|6o3
j
jackson|henri|i|two hundred and forty-four
jackson|marcellus|l|i|three hundred and forty
jackson|william|t|ii|four hundred and seven
jame|jonathan|c|i|i74
jaquett|thoma|t|i|ninety-eight
jaquett|william|a|i|four hundred and sixty-four
lo
index
jessup|charl|c|i|four hundred and forty-two
jessup|georg|w|ii|five hundred and thirty-three
jessup|john|i|four hundred and forty-two
jessup|joseph|i|five hundred and six
johnson|charl|a|j|i
johnson|jame|s|ii|seventy-three
johnson|loui|m|ii|one hundred and twenty-four
johnson|reuben|t|ii|one hundred and sixteen
jone|edmund|i|one hundred and eighty-two
jone|henri|ii|one hundred and seventy-one
jone|jame|c|i|three hundred and seventy-two
jone|owen|l|i|fifty-seven
jone|samuel|b|ii|ten
jone|thoma|ii|five
jone|william|b|ii|three hundred and seventy-six
jordan|p|j|ii|five hundred and sixty-one
joslin|william|m|ii|two hundred
k
kandl|adam|i|two hundred and forty-nine
kandl|alfr|r|i|three hundred and twenty-one
kean|w|c|ii|forty-one
kelley|jame|d|ii|four hundred and thirty
kelti|richard|ii|one hundred and thirty-four
kinkl|georg|j|ii|two hundred and eighty-nine
kio|daniel|ii|five hundred and sixty
koch|alb|august|ii|forty-five
krom|john|m|ii|four hundred and twenty-seven
ladd|benjamin|f|i|ninety-three
ladd|samuel|h|ii|five hundred and seventy-two
lambert|harri|ii|eighty-four
langley|georg|b|ii|four hundred and eighty
langley|joel|g|i|four hundred and eighty-seven
langley|mckendre|i|three hundred and forty-two
lawrenc|albert|w|ii|four hundred and twenty-six
lawrenc|benjamin|p|ii|one hundred and eighty-one
lawrenc|edward|ii|four hundred and fifty-seven
lawrenc|isaac|b|ii|five hundred and fifty-one
lawrenc|jame|ii|sixteen
leahi|walter|t|ii|one hundred and eighty-five
leak|famili|the|i|one hundred and two
leam|coleman|f|jr|i|four hundred and fifty-four
learn|frank|i|four hundred and eighty
learn|jonathan|p|i|two hundred and ninety-one
leam|j|spicer|i|two hundred and eighty-eight
leam|richard|s|i|four hundred and fifty-four
leam|walter|s|i|four hundred and six
leap|sedgwick|r|i|five hundred and thirty-nine
le|croy|samuel|i|three hundred and ninety-three
lefevr|samuel|g|i|three hundred and forty-nine
leonard|j|hampton|i|three hundred and eleven
lindzey|charl|ii|one hundred and thirty-seven
lippincott|charl|d|i|one hundred and twenty-nine
lippincott|franklin|i|five hundred and thirteen
lippincott|isaac|k|i|one hundred and fifteen
lippincott|nathan|w|ii|five hundred and twenty-four
lippincott|samuel|m|ii|four hundred and eight
lloyd|furman|h|ii|three hundred and eighty-two
lock|adrian|p|ii|five hundred and twenty-seven
lock|howard|v|ii|two hundred and twenty-seven
lock|lawrenc|i|four hundred and forty-eight|t
lodg|s|d|i|five hundred and twelve
longacr|thoma|h|ii|two hundred and eighteen
lord|charl|p|i|four hundred and fifty
loudenslag|henri|c|ii|i
lounsburi|jona|h|i|two hundred and seventy-seven
ludham|jeremiah|ii|two hundred and ninety-four
ludlam|alexand|r|ii|three hundred and forty-eight
ludlam|furman|l|ii|gi
ludlam|jess|d|i|one hundred and sixty-six
luerssen|frank|ii|three hundred and eighty-eight
luffbari|m|jone|ii|three hundred and fifty-three
m
macfarland|jame|ii|forty
madden|christian|a|i|four hundred and twenty-six
marci|v|m|d|i|four hundred and ninety
marshal|elli|h|ii|one hundred and eighteen
marshal|joseph|c|ii|three hundred and forty
marshal|randolph|ii|one hundred and eighty
mart|henri|w|i|three hundred and eighty-nine
massey|william|e|ii|two hundred and ninety-two
mayhew|joseph|n|ii|four hundred and twenty-five
mayhew|j|t|ii|four hundred and twenty-nine
three
index
mcclure|john|v|i|thirty-five
mccollist|harri|i|five hundred and sixty-three
mcdermot|john|ii|one hundred and eighty-six
mccullough|william|h|ii|seventy-six
mcfarland|robert|e|ii|five hundred and eighty-nine
mecray|jame|ii|no
mecum|charl|ii|forty-four
mecum|famili|the|ii|four hundred and eighteen
mendum|famili|the|ii|39i
miller|allen|w|i|4i7
miller|edward|g|li|two hundred and sixty-seven
miller|lewi|h|ii|three hundred and seventy
miller|josiah|i|four hundred and sixty-five
miller|richard|c|i|one hundred and sixty-four
miller|richard|t|i|five hundred and seventy-eight
miller|samuel|t|ii|sixty-one
miller|vincent|o|ii|i67
miller|william|i|two hundred and forty-five
miller|wyatt|w|i|twenty-three|thirty
millet|thoma|w|ii|sn
millviu|baptist|church|and|dam|ii
face|ten
minch|bloomfield|h|i|five hundred and eighty
mitchel|henri|w|ii|five hundred and thirty-five
moffett|isaac|ii|four hundred
moor|d|wilson|ii|one hundred and fifty-six
moor|gainer|p|i|three hundred and forty-six
moor|howard|e|ii|three hundred and seventy-eight
moor|john|m|i|three hundred and twenty-nine
moor|joshua|i|4i4
moor|r|s|ii|three hundred and eighty-nine
moor|william|j|one|four hundred and twenty-four
more|robert|ii|five hundred and ninety-six
morri|wiuiam|ii|two hundred and forty
muhlbaier|matthia|i|four hundred and sixty-seven
muller|adon|w|ii|three hundred and six
myer|c|fletcher|ii|one hundred and twenty
myer|lewi|m|ii|three hundred and forty-five
newconil|john|li|five hundred and forty-five
ncwkirk|william|b|i|three hundred and sixty-five
newton|hous|the|i|five hundred and three
ntcltds|frank|r|ii|three hundred and sixty-three
nicholson|jame|b|ii|three hundred and seventy-seven
nicholson|samuel|ii|four
nixon|jere|h|ii|59i
nixon|jame|h|ii|four hundred and forty-seven
nixon|william|g|ii|two hundred and eighty-eight
north|edward|ii|one hundred and ninety-six
nute|john|f|co|i|two hundred and thirty-two
o
obrien|richard|ii|one hundred and forty-one
ocean|citi|founder|oi|ii|sixteen
ocean|citi|associ|ii|sixteen
ocean|citi|central|trust|compani|s
bank|ii|face|sixteen
ocean|citi|cottag|and|beach|ii|eighteen
ocean|citi|daili|report|i|four thousand, four hundred and fifty-six
ocean|citi|sentinel|i|four hundred and forty-five
ogden|famili|the|i|five hundred and thirty-one
ogden|j|t|i|three hundred and thirty-six
ogden|william|m|ii|forty-six
oneil|john|i|37i
ough|william|ii|one hundred and twenty-seven
raid|m|j|i|two hundred and fifty-six
pancoast|charl|f|ii|forty-seven
pancoast|henri|i|four hundred and forty-nine
pancoast|joseph|d|one|5i
pancoast|loui|i|eighty-three
pancoast|staci|l|i|three hundred and ninety-eight
parker|philip|b|i|five hundred and nineteen
parker|samuel|m|i|four hundred and sixty-nine
parker|thoma|e|ii|one hundred and forty-six
parret|william|ii|five
parson|georg|l|you|two hundred and seventy-five
paul|harri|b|li|five hundred and ninety-four
paul|joseph|ii|four hundred and fifty-eight
paulin|j|elli|ii|three hundred and fifty-six
payn|georg|w|li|four hundred and thirty-nine
pearson|charl|ii|five hundred and eighty-eight
pearson|evan|d|ii|two hundred and forty-three
peltit|clark|ii|seventy
index
peltit|jame|j|ii|three hundred and thirty
philadelphia|sanitarium|ii|four hundred and seven
phillip|edward|h|i|two hundred and sixty-four
pierson|georg|e|li|ii4
pierson|john|ii|four hundred and eighty-two
pine|e|frank|ii|five hundred and eighty-five
pioneer|in|wenonah|ii|four hundred and seventy-three
pither|georg|w|ii|five hundred and sixty-eight
plummer|loren|p|i|in
plummer|william|jr|ii|four hundred and ninety-five
plummer|william|sr|ii|four hundred and ninety-three
porch|albert|ii|sixty-eight
porch|jame|ii|five hundred and one
potter|jame|b|i|4s4
powel|jeremiah|ii|four
power|joseph|ii|four hundred and thirty-one
presbyterian|church|of|pittss
daretown|i|five hundred and ten
pressey|georg|w|ii|thirty-eight
price|nathan|c|ii|one hundred and seventy-two
pullen|william|h|i|five hundred and seventy-six
rachor|john|i|five hundred and two
redstrak|john|s|ii|four hundred and three
reed|boardman|i|two hundred and ninety-five
reed|charl|h|ii|fifty-four
reed|georg|w|i|five hundred and eighty-five
reev|andrew|s|i|ninety-five
reev|famili|the|i|one hundred and seven
reev|georg|h|i|two hundred and forty-six
reev|henri|ii|three hundred and forty-one
reev|john|w|i|one hundred and forty-six
reev|samuel|w|i|one hundred and twelve
reev|swayn|s|i|three hundred and ten
reiley|michael|ii|twelve
reminisc|by|w|carey|ii|four hundred and seventy-six
rex|freder|a|ii|five hundred and thirty-two
rice|aaron|g|i|two hundred and eighty-six
rice|edward|l|ii|two hundred and seventy-six
rice|harri|h|ii|two hundred and three
rice|j|lenhart|ii|three hundred and seventeen
richardson|f|l|ii|two hundred and ninety-six
richardson|georg|r|i|four hundred and nine
richardson|horac|e|i|three hundred and twenty-six
richardson|j|w|i|five hundred and ninety-four
richman|joseph|l|ii|five hundred and forty
richman|charl|h|ii|one hundred and forty-two
richman|william|jr|ii|one hundred and twelve
richman|william|s|i|one hundred and seventy-five
richmond|eno|i|one hundred and twenty-one
richmond|s|luther|ii|one hundred and forty-eight
ridgeway|isaac|ii|three hundred and thirty-one
ridgway|f|b|ii|four hundred and forty-five
ridgway|samuel|a|i|three hundred and seventy-seven
righter|j|charl|i|five hundred and twenty
riley|joseph|m|ii|four hundred and ten
robbin|william|ii|three hundred and sixty-four
roberson|w|k|ii|fifty-two
robinson|r|curti|i|four hundred and forty-four
rode|andrew|c|ii|two hundred and nineteen
rode|william|ii|two hundred and twenty-six
rodney|famili|the|ii|four hundred and thirty-nine
roe|jame|m|i|four hundred and eight
roseman|a|walter|ii|five hundred and forty-two
ross|edward|lee|ii|two hundred and ninety-three
rulon|b|frank|i|four hundred and twenty-nine
rulon|john|c|ii|four hundred and sixty-six
rumsey|georg|i|five hundred and eighty-nine
rumsey|henri|m|i|twenty-six|twenty-nine
rush|jame|ii|sixteen
rutherford|charl|h|ii|five hundred and thirty
ryan|reuben|w|i|three hundred and sixty-four
sabsovitch|h|l|i|fifty-nine
salem|courthous|etc|i|face|seventeen
salem|glass|work|i|sixty-nine
salem|librari|ii|five
salem|nation|bank|compani|i|twenty-nine
salem|young|men|s|christian|associa
tion|i|five hundred and seventy-five
salisburi|samuel|i|four hundred and ninety-six
sampson|samuel|b|ii|two hundred and sixty-two
schelling|aaron|ii|four hundred and fifty-two
schelling|j|henri|ii|four hundred and one
index
thirteen
arenc|w|eleven|fifty-one|steeii
ith|b|ii|four hundred and twenty|j|f|j|r
schurch|samuel|i|two hundred and fifty-four
seabrook|albert|m|i|one hundred and forty-two
seagrav|robert|t|i|one hundred and eighty-four
sell|j|wesley|ii|one hundred and four
seran|samuel|l|ii|three hundred and fifty-five
sewel|william|j|ii|five hundred and sixty-nine
sharp|georg|s|ii|four hundred and forty-four
sharp|hugh|c|i|four hundred and sixty-six
sheppard|john|p|i|four hundred and sixty
_|shield|edward|p|i|five hundred and eleven
shoch|j|morton|i|two hundred and thirty-nine
shourd|famili|the|ii|twenty-four
shreve|loui|n|ii|three hundred and forty-seven
shull|j|frank|ii|four hundred and fifty-one
sickler|henri|f|ii|five hundred and seventeen
sickler|john|r|ii|three hundred and twenty-five
sickler|joseph|t|i|three hundred and sixty-eight
sickler|lawrenc|w
sickler|sm
silver|a|g
v|you|sinimerman|albertus|s|ii|four hundred and thirty-seven
simmerman|charl|h|ii|four hundred and thirty-two
sinnickson|andrew|i|two hundred and seventy-three
sinnickson|c|h|i|seventy-five
sinnickson|thoma|i|seventy-eight
slape|a|h|i|ninety-six
slateroof|hous|ii|one hundred and eighty-seven
smith|a|a|ii|2s1
smith|d|harri|ii|four hundred and eighty-three
smith|edward|e|ii|eighty-nine
smith|framb|j|ii|four hundred and sixteen
smith|frank|e|i|five hundred and seventy-three
smith|georg|l|i|eighty-seven
smith|georg|w|i|four hundred
smith|john|ii|four
smith|luke|f|ii|five hundred and three
smith|richard|t|i|three hundred and forty-eight
smith|rufus|w|ii|one hundred and fifty-four
smith|samuel|p|i|four hundred and seventy-six
smith|samuel|h|i|one hundred and ninety-one
smith|t|j|ii|three hundred and fourteen
smith|w|scott|ii|five hundred and sixty-six
soldier|monument|at|woodburi
somer|richard|i|two hundred and ninety
sooy|augustus|i|three hundred and sixteen
souder|c|c|ii|five hundred and eighty-seven
souder|j|d|i|one hundred and thirty-eight
south|jerseyman|ii|four hundred and sixty-one
spark|grant|ii|five hundred and eighty-six
springer|edward|w|i|four hundred and eighty-one
stanger|brother|ii|fourteen
stanger|c|fleme|ii|one hundred and forty-nine
stanger|f|a|ii|one hundred and thirty-nine
stanger|lewi|s|ii|three hundred and eighty-five
stanger|s|h|i|fifty-two
stanger|thoma|ii|one hundred and twenty-nine
i|stanger|t|w|ii|one hundred and twenty-five
one|f|tarr|richard|tii|four hundred and sixty-two
j|teelman|anthoni|eleven|three hundred and fifty-nine
stelman|henri|g|i|five hundred and sixty-six
steelman|jess|s|ii|one hundred and eighty-four
er|albert|ii|one hundred and forty-four
teven|lewi|t|ii|twenty-two|three
stevenson|isaac|c|ii|four hundred and fifty-five
stite|ellsmer|ii|three hundred and nine
st|joseph|s|roman|cathol|church|ii
one hundred and eighty-six
stratton|edward|l|ii|five hundred and fifty-three
stratton|isaac|s|ii|two hundred and fifteen
strickland|horac|p|ii|one hundred and fifty-three
sturr|albert|l|ii|two hundred and fifty
summeril|famili|the|ii|twenty-nine
summeril|william|a|i|three hundred and two
surte|joseph|l|ii|two hundred and fifty-five
sutton|harri|c|ii|five hundred and twenty-seven
sutton|joseph|ii|fifty-eight
swain|isaac|i|three hundred and twenty
swain|return|b|i|three hundred and seventy-four
svvedesboro|triniti|episcop|church|ii
face|twelve
syke|william|ii|one hundred and seventy-eight
synnott|thoma|w|ii|one hundred and three
taggart|j|m|ii|five hundred and forty-six
thi|augustus|i|three hundred and fifty-nine
fourteen
index
tliompson|h|c|i|five hundred and sixteen
thompson|hedg|ii|four hundred and sixty-three
thompson|john|ii|four
thompson|john|w|i|three hundred and fifty-five
thompson|robert|p|i|three hundred and sixty
thompson|smith|i|four hundred and twenty-two
thompson|s|park|i|sixty-four
thompson|wiuiam|j|i|sixty-three
thorn|r|howard|i|two hundred and sixty-seven
tice|clayton|b|ii|three hundred and fifty-two
tice|clayton|d|ii|seventy-five
timberman|charl|h|ii|one hundred and seventy-nine
titus|you|b|ii|four hundred and sixty-four
tombleson|samuel|e|i|two hundred and eighty-seven
tombleson|william|ii|i|three hundred and fifty-four
tomlin|andrew|j|ii|seventy-eight
torton|jame|d|ii|thirty-four
townsend|arthur|h|i|four hundred and ten
townsend|reuben|ii|four hundred and sixty-nine
traci|william|t|ii|one hundred and eighty-six
trenchard|thoma|w|i|fifty-four
triniti|episcop|church|ii|face|twelve
troth|joseph|d|ii|four hundred and twelve
turner|thoma|b|i|seventy-one
tweed|jame|m|ii|three hundred and seven
twell|samuel|g|ii|four hundred and thirty-eight
tyler|benjamin|a|i|four hundred and sixty-two
tyler|john|ii|five
tyler|w|graham|ii|six
v
van|horn|b|v|i|five hundred and one
vanleer|horac|s|i|two hundred and twenty-eight
vanleer|john|h|i|two hundred and thirty-four
van|meter|famili|the|i|thirty-one
vanneman|isaac|h|i|two hundred and seventy-six
vanneman|robert|n|ii|two hundred and fourteen
vineland|librari|etc|ii|two
voorhe|peter|l|li|five hundred and forty-seven
voorhe|peter|v|i|five hundred and fourteen
w
waddington|b|archer|i|eighty-two
waddington|david|b|i|three hundred and sixty-two
waddington|edward|i|four hundred and ninety-nine
waddington|joshua|i|z
waddington|joseph|k|ii|five hundred and seven
wade|edward|ii|four
wainwright|georg|h|i|one hundred and fifty-two
wale|westley|r|ii|five hundred and forty-nine
wallac|john|ii|forty-nine
wallac|joseph|c|ii|ninety-nine
walton|charl|i|one hundred and eighty-seven
wanser|jarvi|ii|five hundred and fifteen
ward|c|howard|i|three hundred and forty-one
ward|john|c|i|five hundred and thirty
ware|dan|ii|one hundred and five
ware|john|s|ii|three hundred and seventeen
warrington|nathan|h|ii|one hundred and sixty-five
warwick|lewi|ii|five hundred and two
washburn|wilber|h|ii|four hundred and eighty-six
washington|park|i|sixty-five
watkin|david|o|ii|four hundred and ninety
way|charl|ii|two hundred and twenty-five
way|eugen|i|one hundred and fifty
way|julius|i|ts8
weatherbi|isaac|h|ii|one hundred and sixty-nine
weaver|john|s|i|three hundred and fifty-eight
webb|carolin|g|i|three hundred and fifty-one
webb|randolph|i|three hundred and fifty-two
webb|thoma|w|i|three hundred and fifty-two
wellman|benjamin|i|three hundred and fifty
well|martin|i|two hundred and forty-eight
welsh|famili|the|ii|three hundred and eighty-six
west|georg|s|ii|four hundred and forty-eight
west|henri|j|i|five hundred and seventy-six
west|jersey|academi|ii|ten
wheeler|jame|s|ii|one hundred and fifty-seven
whitak|famili|the|i|three hundred and three
whitak|isaac|i|one hundred and four
whitak|joseph|d|i|two hundred and forty
whitesel|charl|r|ii|three hundred and seventy-four
whitney|eben|ii|fourteen
whitney|glass|work|ii|thirteen
wildwood|ii|four thousand, eight hundred and forty-six
wiley|david|i|five hundred and eighty-three
wilkin|charl|m|i|five hundred and fifty-six
index
i
wilkin|e|ward|i|five hundred and fifty-eight
wilkin|john|ii|three
william|william|c|ii|two hundred and seventy-three
william|william|o|i|five hundred and four
williamson|mose|ii|forty-five
williamson|william|k|i|three hundred and forty-four
wilson|charl|ii|five hundred and twenty-nine
jwilson|howard|a|i|one hundred and seventy-two|y
wilson|j|frank|i|five hundred and forty-four|s
wilson|robert|i|four hundred and seventy-one
wistar|clayton|ii|five hundred and seventy-nine
wolferth|christian|ii|three hundred and forty-three
wolferth|georg|ii|two hundred and forty-eight
wood|benjamin|f|ii|two hundred and thirty-eight
wood|d|c|ii|five hundred and twenty-six
wood|william|a|ii|three hundred and ninety-two
woodburi|ii|twelve
woodburi|academi|ii|fifteen
woodburi|courthous|ii|twelve
woodburi|daili|time|i|five hundred and forty-one
woodburi|glass|work|i|four hundred and twenty-eight
woodburi|m|e|church|li|face|twelve
woodburi|old|resid|ii|eleven
woodruff|a|b|i|one hundred and fifty-one
woodstown|first|nation|bank|ii|eight
wright|amnon|i|two hundred and eighty-two
z
zane|robert|ii|four
salem|counti|court|hous|found|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-five|rebuilt|eighteen|seventeen
market|street|salem|show|the|citi|bank|and|the
garwood|hous
friend|meet|hous|salem|erect|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two
the|old|oak|and|friend|cemeteri
governor|s|hous|salem|built|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one
old|hancock|hous|hancock|s|bridg
biograph|histori
of|the
first|cofi2|ressioiial|district|ot|new|jersey
john|fenwick
t|ohn|fenwick|was|born|in|northumberland|counti|at|stanton
i|manor|in|england|in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and eighteen|he|was|a|lawyer|and|was|made
a|captain|of|cavaln|by|cromwel|and|took|an|activ|part|against|the
throne|he|was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|like|mani|other
of|that|religi|faith|and|their|descend|was|imprison|for|conscienc
sake|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-five|lord|berkley|offer|west|new|jersey|for|sale
there|appear|to|have|been|an|understand|between|one|edward|billing
and|fenwick|to|purchas|the|whole|of|west|new|jersey|and|for|fenwick|to
have|onetenth|of|the|land|the|deed|was|given|for|the|land|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-three|fen
wick|s|portion|be|what|is|now|salem|and|cumberland|counti|he|then
made|prepar|to|emigr|and|take|possess|of|the|land|in|america
and|held|out|induc|for|other|to|emigr|with|him|a|number
accept|the|invit|of|fenwick|most|of|them|be|of|his|own|religi
faith|fenwick|s|friend|had|great|faith|in|his|honesti|and|some|of|them
purchas|land|and|paid|him|befor|they|embark|the|follow|are|the
name|of|some|of|the|princip|person|who|embark|with|john|fenwick
john|pledger|samuel|nicholson|jame|nevil|edward|wade|robert|wade
samuel|wade|robert|windham|richard|hancock|and|their|famili|and
sever|other|there|were|sever|singl|men|samuel|hedg|jr|isaac
siar|and|other|the|servant|that|hire|in|england|to|person|abov
mention|and|likewis|to|john|fenwick|and|his|two|sonsinlaw|were
robert|turner|gewa|bywat|william|wilkinson|joseph|worth|joseph
ware|michael|eaton|eleanor|geev|nathaniel|chambless|his|son|nathan
chambless|jr|mark|reev|edward|webb|and|elizabeth|walter
smith|in|his|histori|of|new|jersey|say|in|mani|instanc|the|servant
becam|more|conspicu|member|of|civil|and|religi|societi|than|their
l8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
employ|fenwick|s|immedi|famili|that|came|with|him|were|his|daugh
ter|elizabeth|and|her|husband|john|adam|his|daughter|ann|fenwick
who|marri|samuel|hedg|jr|the|spring|follow|and|his|youngest
daughter|priscilla|whose|husband|was|edward|champney|his|wife|mari
fenwick|did|not|accompani|him|to|his|new|home|in|the|wilder|for|some
becaus|that|has|never|been|explain|the|letter|pass|between|them
manifest|a|sincer|and|filial|attach|and|they|continu|to|correspond
while|life|remain|they|embark|from|london|in|the|ship|griffith
robert|griffith|be|master|on|the|23d|of|the|ninth|month|they|arriv
at|the|mouth|of|assamhockin|creek|now|call|salem|creek|and|ascend
the|stream|about|three|mile|and|land|at|a|point|of|land|fenwick|and
his|friend|that|were|with|him|thought|it|a|suitabl|locat|for|a|town|he
gave|it|the|name|of|new|salem|becaus|he|remark|to|one|of|his|intim
friend|the|name|signifi|peac|but|it|did|not|prove|so|to|him|as|the|sequel
of|his|histori|w|i|will|show|he|like|his|great|friend|and|benefactor|william
penn|and|also|roger|william|found|in|settl|coloni|there|were|more
thorn|than|rose|on|account|of|the|low|ground|salem|was|sometim
call|swamp|town
as|soon|as|it|was|practic|after|the|earli|settler|of|salem|land|the
proprietor|held|a|council|with|the|indian|chief|that|live|within|the|compass
of|salem|counti|and|purchas|all|their|land|of|them|therebi|secur
perpetu|peac|with|the|nativ|and|the|same|kind|of|a|treati|was|made|with
them|by|billyng|or|his|agent|for|the|remaind|of|west|jersey|they|re
serv|certain|right|for|themselv|trap|fish|and|the|privileg
of|cut|certain|kind|of|wood|for|the|purpos|of|make|basket|also|in
make|their|cano|and|other|thing|the|treati|was|faith|fulfil
about|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred|the|few|remain|indian|in|this|state|made|applic
to|the|new|jersey|legislatur|to|sell|all|their|right|and|privileg|they|held
in|the|state|which|was|accept|by|the|legislatur|and|they|were|paid|the
price|they|ask|they|then|remov|to|the|state|of|new|york|to|dwell|with
the|mohawk|and|other|scatter|tribe|that|remain|in|that|state
john|fenwick|after|his|arriv|in|salem|issu|a|proclam|grant
civil|and|rehgious|liberti|to|all|person|who|should|settl|within|his|provinc
in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-six|he|turn|his|attent|to|provid|home|for|his|children
and|accord|direct|richard|hancock|his|surveyor|to|lay|out|and|sur
vey|two|thousand|acr|in|upper|mannington|fo|r|samuel|hedg|jr|and
his|wife|ann|the|said|land|was|call|hedgefield|he|also|direct|him
to|survey|two|thousand|acr|for|his|soninlaw|edward|champney|and
his|wife|priscilla|which|land|was|bound|on|the|west|by|john|smith|s|land
on|the|north|by|jame|nevel|s|farm|and|auoway|s|creek|on|the|south|to
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|nineteen
his|soninlaw|john|adam|and|his|wife|euzalieth|he|gave|all|that|tract|of
land|locat|in|what|is|now|call|penn|s|neck|it|is|known|at|the|present
day|as|the|sapaney|fenwick|built|himself|a|hous|in|the|town|of|salem
on|what|he|call|ivi|point|from|said|hous|he|was|forcibl|taken|in|the
middl|of|the|night|by|a|parti|of|men|from|new|castl|and|taken|to|that
town|from|thenc|sent|to|new|york|and|there|imprison|by|an|order|of
governor|andross|under|i|retens|that|he|was|infring|upon|the|right|of
that|state|which|they|claim|to|own|to|the|eastern|shore|of|the|delawar
river|he|was|soon|afterward|releas
after|two|or|three|year|more|of|perplex|and|troubl|in|endeavor
to|establish|a|govern|in|the|coloni|he|wise|abandon|it|by|sell
all|the|land|he|had|in|the|salem|tenth|reserv|one|hundr|and|fifti|thou
sand|acr|for|himself|and|famili|to|governor|william|penn|the|deed
was|given|the|23d|day|of|iarch|u1s2|from|that|time|the|whole|of|est
jersey|was|under|one|govern|the|legislatur|met|at|burlington|and
samuel|jen|of|that|place|was|elect|deputi|governor|at|the|first|legi
latur|afterward|john|fenwick|was|elect|one|of|the|member|of|that
bodi|from|salem|counti|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|but|be|unwel|he|left|his
home|in|salem|and|went|to|samuel|hedg|s|his|soninlaw|in|you|per|man
nington|there|to|be|care|for|by|his|favorit|daughter|ann|hedg|in|his
last|day|for|he|die|a|short|time|aftenvard|at|the|age|of|sixtyf|year
he|request|befor|his|death|to|be|buri|in|the|sharp|s|famili|buri
ground|which|was|compli|with|the|said|ground|was|former|a|i|art|of
the|salem|counti|almshous|farm
on|juli|ii|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight|john|fenwick|issu|a|warrant|to|richard|tindal|sur
veyorgener|for|salem|counti|and|to|john|woolriug|his|deputi|to|lay
out|one|acr|of|land|in|salem|on|which|to|erect|a|courthons|and|prison
this|was|done|and|the|build|were|erect|on|bridg|street|afterward
call|market|street
in|one hundred and eighty-one|seven|an|elect|was|held|to|decid|whether|the|courthous|should|lie
remov|from|the|oneacr|lot|where|it|now|stand|the|major|of|the|in
habit|in|pile|grove|both|pittsgrov|uiqier|penn|s|neck|and|upper
alloway|s|creek|were|in|favor|of|remov|the|counti|iniild|where
the|place|should|be|there|was|a|divers|of|opinion|alloway|was|suggest
while|other|were|in|favor|of|woodstown|by|a|survey|of|the|counti|the
almshous|farm|was|found|to|be|the|most|central|the|elect|was|held|to
remov|the|countv|build|to|the|south|end|of|said|farm|or|for|them|to
remain|in|salem|it|was|decid|by|a|larg|mijor|of|voter|for|them|to
remain
biograph|histori|ol|the|first
hon|georg|hire
if|there|is|a|name|indeliljli|written|you|on|the|page|of|salem|s|com
mercial|and|i|olit|histori|it|is|the|name|of|hon|georg|hire|a|pro
grassiv|busi|man|who|for|near|half|a|centuri|has|been|identifi|with
ever|mark|improv|the|counti|has|wit|he|is|a|son|of|georg
and|mari|royal|hire|and|was|born|in|elsinboro|salem|counti|new
jersey|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|his|patern|ancestor|came|from|germani
to|america|and|settl|in|cumberland|counti|this|state|where|john|hire
the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was|born
for|sever|year|john|hire|was|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|but
dure|his|later|year|move|to|salem|where|he|live|to|the|advanc|age
of|ninetyfour|year|enjoy|that|immun|from|toil|which|a|long|life|of
industri|accord|him|he|marri|and|rais|a|larg|famili|of|children
among|whom|was|georg|hire|born|februari|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and two|georg|hire
was|also|a|farmer|and|soon|after|his|marriag|to|miss|mari|royal|move
to|salem|count|sexer|year|befor|his|death|he|took|up|his|resid
in|salem|where|he|live|a|quiet|and|retir|life|he|was|a|member|of|the
presbyterian|church|a|man|of|upright|and|honoraiil|charact|whose|life
was|abov|the|breath|of|reproach
hon|georg|hire|receiv|his|earli|educ|in|the|district|school|near
quinton|and|in|the|friend|school|at|salem|leav|the|hall|of|edu
cation|at|the|earli|age|of|fifteen|he|work|on|a|farm|for|three|year|when
he|enter|a|store|in|quinton|in|the|capac|of|clerk|one|year|later|he
was|admit|into|partnership|with|david|p|smith|and|the|firm|of|smith
hire|continu|for|five|year|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|when|mr|hire|purchas
the|interest|of|his|partner|and|continu|alon|for|one|year|when|his
brother|oiarl|hire|elsewher|repres|in|this|work|becam|associ
with|him|the|firm|do|busi|under|the|name|of|g|c|hire|two
year|later|the|firm|of|smith|hire|lambert|companv|was|form|for
the|purpos|of|manufactur|window|glass|and|the|plant|ultim|in
stall|by|that|compani|was|the|quinton|glass|work
just|here|it|may|be|interest|to|mention|that|on|the|24th|of|octob
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|the|first|window|glass|was|made|in|quinton|dure|the|interven
year|chang|have|been|made|in|the|firm|but|georg|hire|has|alway|been
identifi|with|it|and|the|present|firm|known|as|hire|compan|com
pose|of|georg|hire|charl|hire|and|william|plummer|jr|has|been
in|exist|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|in|addit|to|this|plant|they|have|a|larg|whole
sale|job|hous|at|six hundred and twenty-six|arch|street|philadelphia|which|was|establish
congression|district|of|xeic|jersey|twenty-one
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|this|firm|is|known|as|the|hirestnni|glass|compani|of|which
our|sul|ject|is|the|presid|he|is|also|the|vice|presid|of|the|fogg
hire|canning|compani|which|has|factori|at|ouinton|hancock|s|bridg
and|pennsviu|like|his|ancestor|he|is|veri|much|interest|in|agricul
ture|and|with|other|land|properti|own|the|homestead|farm|near
quinton|which|has|heen|in|the|possess|of|the|famili|for|more|than|half|a
centuri|he|has|been|a|director|in|the|salem|nation|bank|for|eighteen
vear|and|was|one|of|the|organ|of|the|new|jersey|trust|safe|deposit
compani|when|he|was|chosen|a|director|and|has|fillel|the|oftic|ever|sinc
his|success|in|public|life|has|been|no|less|mark|than|in|the|commer
cial|in|polit|he|has|alway|been|a|republican|and|was|elect|the
sheriff|of|this|countv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|by|one|of|the|largest|major|ever|given|m
the|countv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|was|elect|to|the|state|senat|it|was|dure|his
term|in|the|senat|that|the|corpor|tax|bill|was|passel|from|which|the
state|has|been|so|greatlv|benefit|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|was|elect|to|the|fortynmth
congress|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|reelect|to|the|fiftieth|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was|appoint
by|governor|wert|a|member|of|the|new|jersey|constitutionalamend
convent|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|chosen|a|deleg|to|the|nation|convent
held|at|st|loui|which|nominatel|william|ickinley|for|presid|and
garrett|a|hobart|for|vice|presid|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|new
jersev|state|committe|for|ten|year|which|posit|he|still|hold
he|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|to|miss|ann|eliza|patrick|who|diel|within|a
few|month|and|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|he|marri|miss|elizabeth|k|plummer
a|daughter|of|judg|william|plummer|two|children|surviv|this|marriag
lucius|e|and|bessi|k|hire|his|present|wife|is|mrs|arti|c|hogat
nee|paget|whom|he|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|this|union|has|been|honor|by|the
birth|of|two|children|mari|ethel|and|georg|hire|jr
edward|b|humphrey
no|histori|of|oodstown|would|be|complet|without|the|record|of|ed
ward|bilderback|humphrey|so|close|has|he|been|associ|with|the|mer
cantil|interest|of|the|citi|the|materi|welfar|of|woodstown|is|attribut
abl|in|no|small|degre|to|his|effort|for|he|belong|to|that|class|of|repr
sentat|american|who|while|promot|individu|success|also|advanc
the|general|prosperit|from|a|low|ly|posit|in|life|he|has|gradual|work
his|way|upward|overcom|mani|dilficulti|and|obstacl|yet|never|falter
ing|in|his|determin|to|win|for|himself|a|place|in|the|busi|world|he
is|today|one|of|the|most|iiromin|merchant|and|realest|owner|of
twenty-two|biograph|histori|op|php|pirst
woodstown|yet|is|entir|free|from|ostent|in|fact|is|extrem|re
serv|and|at|all|time|avoid|person|notorieti|but|genuin|merit|and
success|can|not|be|hidden|and|the|aliilit|tliat|has|won|him|success|has
brought|him|prominentl|befor|the|jjublic
mr|hum|lirey|was|born|in|the|littl|villag|of|sharptown|salem|counti
august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|his|parent|be|samuel|and|rachel|bilderback|humph
rey|he|was|one|of|seven|children|and|his|earli|youth|was|pass|at|his
parent|home|and|in|attend|at|the|villag|school|wdier|he|pursu|his
studi|under|the|direct|of|messr|bullock|cochran|and|lippincott|his
opportun|howev|in|that|direct|were|somewhat|limit|he|be
abl|to|obtain|onli|the|rudiment|of|an|educ|in|the|schoolroom
through|read|experi|and|observ|howev|he|has|becom|a
wellinform|man
in|earli|life|mr|humphrey|work|on|a|farm|for|a|time|and|later|went
to|philadfcliihia|hereb_|he|permanentl_|seer|his|connect|with|agri
cultur|interest|aliout|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|he|return|to|sharptown|and|soon|began
busi|on|his|own|accoimt|ith|borrow|capit|he|purchas|a|small
stock|of|merchandis|and|o|3ene|a|store|continu|in|busi|there|for
about|eight|or|ten|year|w|hen|he|dis|ose|of|his|interest|in|his|nati|e|town
and|came|to|his|present|place|of|resid|here|he|purchas|the|store
then|own|liy|joseph|k|riley|conduct|the|store|for|about|a|year|when
he|sold|out|at|a|good|profit|to|messr|lawson|pancoast|soon|after
ward|he|purchas|the|corner|lot|now|occupi|by|his|present|store|and|resi
denc|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|erect|the|busi|block|and|from|that|time|has|con
duct|one|of|the|largest|best|equip|and|complet|general|mercantil
store|in|this|nr|of|the|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|he|admit|edward|wallac|to|a
partnership|in|the|busi|and|that|relat|was|maintain|for|seventeen
year|when|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|mr|allac|withdrew|mr|humphrey|still|conduct
the|busi|and|has|a|ey|larg|patronag|he|has|care|studi|the
public|tast|and|his|earnest|desir|to|pleas|his|iatron|combin|with|his
reliabl|has|won|him|a|larg|trade
along|other|line|mr|humphr|has|lieen|close|alli|with|the|busi
ness|interest|of|woodstown|he|has|made|extens|and|judici|invest
ment|in|real|estat|and|has|thus|contribut|to|the|upbuild|of|the|citi
in|one|eighty-eight|one|he|purchas|the|old|ford|hotel|properti|and|a|few|year|later|he
sold|a|few|feet|at|the|corner|at|exact|the|price|paid|for|the|entir|amount
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|erect|a|tine|operahous|on|salem|street|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|also
built|on|the|ford|properti|a|pantaloon|factori|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|erect|the|fine
hotel|on|east|avenu|one|of|the|finest|build|of|the|town|do|this|for
the|purpos|of|furnish|a|place|of|entertain|for|the|trael|public
rfuattr|fhiul
congression|district|of|new|jersey|twenty-three
where|they|would|not|be|surround|by|the|influenc|of|intoxic|he
is|a|man|of|strict|temper|principl|and|without|regard|for|the
financi|side|of|the|question|he|erect|the|hotel|the|invest|howev
has|prove|a|profit|one|he|was|one|of|the|organ|of|the|woodstown
first|nation|bank|for|a|time|howev|he|was|not|associ|with|that
institut|mani|of|it|director|prefer|an|uptown|locat|somewhat
remov|from|the|busi|center|and|believ|this|unwis|mr|humph
rey|sever|his|connect|with|the|institut|some|year|later|howev
the|wisdom|of|his|opinion|was|demonstr|and|today|the|bank|is|occupi
ing|an|excel|site|in|the|center|of|the|town|sold|to|them|by|mr|humph
rey|he|is|the|owner|of|much|valuabl|citi|properti|compris|three|of
the|best|busi|corner|in|the|town
anoth|enterpris|which|elicit|his|attent|and|aid|was|the|wood
town|monitor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|began|the|public|of|a|bright|interest
journal|which|was|at|first|print|at|the|offic|of|the|gazett|in|camden
and|later|at|the|home|offic|in|woodstown|this|journal|is|now|own|and
publish|by|benjamin|patterson|esquir|and|has|been|consolid|with
the|woodstown|regist|under|the|name|of|the|monitorregist
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|mr|humphrey|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|jenni|webb
null|a|daughter|of|william|null|at|that|time|the|proprietor|of|null|s
mill|their|children|are|mari|william|edward|and|bell|but|william
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|at|the|age|of|nineteen|year
such|in|brief|is|the|histori|of|one|of|woodstown|s|lead|and|influen
tial|busi|men|and|the|record|of|his|life|should|well|serv|as|an|illustr
of|what|may|be|accomplish|through|determin|purpos|unflag
energi|and|laudabl|ambit
wyatt|w|miller
yatt|istar|miller|one|of|the|oldest|busi|men|of|salem|is|con
nect|with|the|salem|bank|compani|and|is|one|of|the|citi|s|most|high
esteem|resid|he|is|a|son|of|josiah|and|hetti|jame|miller|and
was|born|novemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|in|mannington|township|this|counti|the|birth
place|of|sever|generat|of|his|ancestor|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|joseph|miller|his
greatgreatgreatgrandfath|came|from|the|state|of|connecticut|and|settl
at|cohansey|this|counti|in|order|to|enjoy|the|freedom|of|religi|expr
sion|the|new|england|state|at|that|time|refus|the|societi|of|friend
that|freedom|which|thev|claim|for|themseh|and|mani|of|the|member|of
twenty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
that|denomin|sought|home|in|rhode|island|and|tlie|western|state
joseph|was|a|surveyor|and|was|chosen|deputi|surveyor|for|the|lower|section
of|fenwick|s|tenth|he|did|a|great|deal|of|work|and|stood|high|in|his|pro
fession|he|had|one|son|ebenez|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and two|and|succeed|to|his
father|s|busi|at|the|death|of|the|latter|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty|ebenez|miller|was|the
greatgreatgrandfath|of|our|subject|and|marri|sarah|a|daughter|of|john
collier|by|whom|he|had|a|larg|famili|of|children|name|ebenez|jr
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-five|hannah|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-eight|and|marri|to|charl|fogg|josiah
bom|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one|andrew|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two|william|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-five|john|born|in
one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-seven|mark|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|sarah|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|and|rebecca|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-seven
ebenez|miller|live|to|reach|the|age|of|seventytw|o|year|and|pass|his
last|day|in|the|town|of|greenwich|this|state
josiah|william|miller|the|greatgrandfath|was|the|second|son|of|his
parent|and|was|marri|to|letitia|wood|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty|she|was|a|daughter|of
richard|wood|sr|of|slow|creek|township|cumberland|counti|this|state
by|their|union|were|five|children|name|josiah|jr|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-one|rich
ard|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four|john|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|letitia|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|and|becam|the
wife|of|william|reev|and|mark|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-four|he|purchas|a|larg
tract|of|land|in|mannington|township|which|former|belong|to|the|south
ern|part|of|the|jame|sherron|allot|of|one|thousand|acr|which|he
bought|of|john|fenwick|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-six|one|of|the|finest|tract|of|land|in|fenwick|s
tenth|he|built|a|substanti|brick|hous|upon|it|and|his|willleft|twenti
five|hundr|dollar|and|a|number|of|legaci|to|be|divid|up|among|his
relat|his|son|richard|was|born|on|this|farm|a|part|of|which|is|now|in
the|possess|of|our|subject|and|there|grew|to|manhood|he|was|a|hus
bandman|and|own|one|hundr|and|sixti|acr|of|the|origin|homestead
which|was|a|valuabl|piec|of|properti|he|was|a|member|of|the|societi
of|friend|and|die|while|attend|their|quarter|meet|in|burlington
couriti|some|time|in|the|40s|he|marri|elizabeth|wyatt|wistar|whose
mother|was|a|wyatt|and|rear|three|children|josiah|father|of|our|sub
ject|sarah|mrs|benjamin|acton|and|letitia|who|marri|thoma|p
sheppard|the|grandmoth|reach|the|extrem|age|of|eightyseven|year
and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|josiah|miller|was|also|born|on|the|old|homestead|farm|in
mannington|township|about|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-nine|and|his|death|occur|on|the|anniversari
of|this|day|thirtyfour|year|later|he|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and|a
strong|whig|by|his|marriag|to|hetti|jame|he|had|three|son|richard
who|was|born|decemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|follow|the|life|of|an|agriculturist|in
his|nativ|township|was|marri|to|elizabeth|blackwood|who|die|childless
and|afterward|he|chose|a|second|wife|who|bore|him|one|son|richard|sam
uel|who|was|born|februari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and|was|a|farmer|of|mannington|town
coxgressioxjl|district|of|new|jersey|twenty-five
ship|marri|hannah|rumsey|and|had|one|son|wyatt|wyatt|wistar|is
the|youngest|after|the|death|of|the|father|the|widow|marri|david|reev
of|philadelphia|wit|whom|slie|hved|until|her|seventieth|year|when|death
sever|the|bond
wyatt|istar|miller|was|educ|in|the|common|school|of|salem|and
bridgeton|and|was|an|apt|pupil|dilig|and|earnest|who|ad|to|the|store
of|wisdom|thus|obtain|by|comprehens|read|and|keen|observ
after|leav|school|he|was|employ|on|a|farm|for|a|short|time|and|then
went|to|safe|harbor|lancast|counti|pennsylvania|where|he|was|en
gage|in|the|manufactur|of|pig|and|railroad|iron|from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he
move|upon|his|farm|at|this|time|and|was|engag|in|husbandri|for|twenti
two|year|when|he|move|to|salem|where|he|has|sinc|resid|sever
year|befor|he|had|becom|identifi|with|the|salem|nation|bank|and
was|a|director|of|the|institut|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|when|he|was|elect
the|presid|he|is|well|adapt|for|the|duti|of|this|offic|be|a|genial
pleasant|man|of|great|forc|of|charact|and|remark|perspicu|of|speech
and|conduct|whose|push|and|energi|lent|strength|to|whatev|becaus|he
espous
mr|liller|was|marri|lay|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|to|missmari|l|griffin|a|daugh
ter|of|john|iriffin|who|as|the|manag|of|the|iron|work|at|safe|harbor
was|the|predecessor|of|our|subject|he|resid|at|phoenixvill|pennsyl
vania|at|his|death|and|had|two|children|mrs|miller|and|a|son|who|was|in
the|navi|and|was|buri|at|sea|mr|miller|has|nine|children|name|josiah
jr|born|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|is|a|surveyor|by|profess|and|an|insur|agent
by|occup|resid|at|salem|he|marri|mari|ann|thompson|and|has
three|children|alic|esther|g|and|an|infant|samuel|is|a|farmer|robert
is|a|manufactur|of|dental|suppli|in|philadelphia|he|marri|miss|speak
man|and|has|four|children|mari|l|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|marri|j|forman|sinnd
kon|a|lawyer|of|salem|by|whom|she|has|one|child|elizabeth|hetti|who
marri|collin|b|allen|a|farmer|of|lannington|township|they|have|three
children|elsi|mari|and|elizabeth|wyatt|wistar|was|a|clerk|in|the|pen
sion|offic|at|ashington|and|die|in|that|offic|januari|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|georg
is|employ|in|the|bank|and|is|unmarri|elizabeth|is|also|unmarri|as|is
john|the|ninth|and|youngest|child|mr|miller|is|a|stanch|republican|and
was|elect|to|the|offic|of|state|senat|from|salem|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|dis
charg|the|duti|incumb|upon|him|in|a|manner|high|satisfactori|to
his|constitu|he|is|a|well|preserv|handsom|old|gentleman|whose
intellectu|vigor|is|in|no|wise|impair|by|age|and|his|busi|abil|today
will|bear|comparison|with|ani|of|our|younger|men
twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
henri|m|rumsey
mr|rumsey|is|the|well|known|cashier|of|the|salem|nation|bank
compani|bank|institut|are|the|heart|of|the|commerci|bodi|indi
cate|the|health|of|trade|and|the|bank|that|follow|a|safe|conserva
tive|busi|polici|doe|more|to|establish|public|confid|in|time|of|wide
spread|financi|depress|than|anyth|els|such|a|cours|has|the|salem
nation|bank|compani|follow|under|the|abl|manag|of|mv
rumsey|and|his|associ|who|direct|it|aiifair|eor|mani|year|he|has
been|associ|with|the|financi|interest|of|the|citi|and|at|all|time|he|has
command|the|public|confid|by|his|reliabl|busi|method|and|his
fidel|to|the|trust|repos|in|him
mr|rumsey|has|spent|his|entir|life|in|salem|counti|his|birth|have
occur|august|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|his|parent|be|georg|c|and|margaret|can
arro|rumsey|through|mani|generat|the|ancestri|of|the|famili|can
be|trace|and|the|histori|embrac|the|record|of|men|of|sterl|worth|who
in|the|various|walk|of|life|have|won|success|the|founder|of|the|famili|in
america|was|charl|rumsey|who|emigr|from|wale|to|america|in
one thousand, six hundred and sixty-five|land|at|charleston|south|carolina|whenc|he|went|to|new|york
and|philadelphia|locat|final|at|the|head|of|bohemia|river|in|cecil
counti|maryland|he|had|eight|children|and|to|two|of|them|charl|and
william|he|left|three|hundr|acr|of|land|the|home|plantat|and|to|a
third|son|edward|he|left|one|hundr|acr|one|of|the|son|of|the|latter
jame|rumsey|was|born|on|the|farm|at|the|head|of|bohemia|river|he|in
vent|a|steamboat|propel|by|the|reaction|of|a|stream|of|water|which
by|the|agenc|of|steam|was|forc|out|of|the|stern|through|a|cylind|parallel
to|the|keel|this|invent|was|a|decid|success|and|was|larg|use|in
navig|until|more|modern|method|supplant|it|he|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three
and|move|to|the|state|of|virginia|where|he|was|live|at|the|time|he|per
fect|his|invent|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|he|went|to|london|and|while|deliv|a|lec
ture|explain|the|method|he|had|employ|he|was|stricken|with|apoplexi
and|die|befor|medic|help|could|reach|him
william|rumsey|the|son|of|charl|rumsey|the|welsh|emigr|was
born|april|twenty-one|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|and|becam|a|surveyor|of|note|he|assist|in|locat
the|state|line|between|pennsylvania|and|maryland|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|and|perform
other|import|survey|servic|he|also|act|as|a|collector|of|custom
and|becam|one|of|the|most|extens|landown|of|cecil|counti|leav
about|thirtyf|thousand|acr|of|land|to|his|heir|the|old|rumsey|man
sion|was|a|magnific|specimen|of|coloni|architectur|picturesqueh|situ
2v|2y
coxgressiok|district|one|xeir|jcrsev|twenty-seven
ate|on|an|emin|command|a|wide|expans|of|beauti|countri|m
middl|neck|cecil|counti|but|the|process|of|time|have|long|sinc|reduc
it|to|a|state|of|decay|and|ruin|while|the|name|onc|so|honor|and|promi
nent|in|the|histori|of|cecil|counti|is|now|almost|unknown|there|the|de
scendant|have|dispos|of|their|inherit|and|move|northward|to|phd
adelphia|new|jersey|and|illinoi|in|those|place|howev|the|name|is
now|no|less|honor|for|it|repres|have|becom|import|factor
in|the|various|local|where|they|resid|william|rumsey|of|cecil|counti
marri|sabina|ijlankinburg|and|left|three|son|and|two|daughter|at|his
death|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-two
colonel|charl|rumsey|one|of|his|children|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-six|and|took
an|activ|part|in|the|struggl|for|independ|in|the|war|of|the|revolut
he|was|a|member|of|the|maryland|council|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|the|maryland|council|of
safeti|in|the|follow|year|and|was|the|colonel|of|the|elk|battalion|cecil
counti|militia|in|the|same|ear|he|marri|aliigail|jane|caner|who|was
born|in|j4|k|and|die|in|feljruari|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|she|was|a|daughter|of|rev
richard|and|emma|oxen|caner|her|father|a|minist|of|the|episcop
church|resid|in|cecil|counti|maryland|unto|mr|and|mrs|rumsey
were|born|ten|children|among|whom|was|benjamin|the|grandfath|of
henri|m|rumsey|he|was|born|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|in|that|counti|and|be
came|veri|wealthi|have|extens|land|possess|he|marri|miss
mari|clark|a|daughter|of|georg|clark|of|delawar|their|children|were
charl|who|marri|hannah|mulford|ann|jane|wife|of|bacon|ware
georg|c|the|father|of|our|subject|and|eliza|b|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and five|the
father|of|these|children|was|call|to|his|final|rest|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and three
georg|c|rumsey|was|a|nativ|of|middletown|delawar|and|was|born
novemb|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|he|remov|to|salem|where|for|mani|year|he|was
engag|in|general|merchandis|follow|that|pursuit|until|about|the
vear|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|he|was|elect|a|director|of|the|salem|bank|com
pani|and|continu|to|hold|that|offic|until|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|he
was|made|the|cashier|of|the|bank|and|was|one|of|the|most|efifici|offic
that|has|ever|been|connect|with|the|institut|he|was|also|interest
in|various|other|busi|enterpris|and|own|sever|tract|of|land|in
the|counti|his|polit|support|was|given|the|democrat|parti|in|his
earli|life|but|subsequ|he|join|the|rank|of|the|whig|parti|he|was
an|honor|member|of|the|first|presljyterian|church|of|salem|serv|as
one|of|it|elder|and|took|an|activ|part|in|it|work|he|die|decemb|twenty-eight
one|eighty-five|one|at|the|age|of|fiftytwo|year|and|his|wife|pass|away|april|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three
at|the|advanc|age|of|eightysix|year
henrv|m|rumsev|their|onli|child|has|spent|his|entir|life|in|salem
twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|tirst
counti|he|was|proid|t|good|educ|ii|ii|ege|pursu|his
studi|in|salem|in|mount|holh|and|in|princeton|it|fell|to|his|lot|to
assum|charg|of|extens|busi|interest|at|an|age|when|most|lad|are
think|onli|of|amus|for|his|father|die|hen|he|was|onli|thirteen
year|of|age|and|it|becam|necessari|for|him|to|assum|an|earli|control|of
his|inherit|as|soon|as|his|educ|as|complet|lie|began|the|culti
vation|of|the|farm|and|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|meet
with|credit|success|in|his|undertak|four|year|prior|to|this|time
he|was|elect|to|the|oic|of|director|in|the|salem|bank|compani|a
posit|former|held|by|his|father|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|accept|a|clerkship|in
the|salem|nation|bank|compani|s|establish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|was
promot|to|the|posit|of|assist|cashier|and|after|serv|in|that|ca
paciti|for|ten|ear|he|was|elect|cashier|for|eighteen|vear|lie|has|dis
charg|the|duti|of|that|place|and|the|success|of|the|bank|is|attribut
in|no|small|measur|to|his|enterpris|keen|discern|and|systemat|busi
ness|method|his|effort|have|by|no|mean|l|een|limit|to|this|line|of
endeaor|for|he|is|a|man|of|resourc|abil|and|his|wise|counsel|has
prove|an|import|factor|in|the|success|conduct|of|mani|other|busi
interest|he|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|trade
mr|rumsey|was|marri|novemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|to|aliss|maria|elliott|a
daughter|of|benjamin|bassett|a|promin|farmer|of|mannington|township
and|a|director|in|the|salem|nation|bank|she|was|one|of|four|children
name|sarah|the|wife|of|barkley|griscon|an|agriculturist|of|lannington
township|rachel|the|wife|of|collin|allen|a|farmer|richard|who|marri
ann|grier|and|is|a|retir|farmer|of|salem|and|maria|the|wife|of|our|subject
mr|and|mrs|rumsey|have|three|children|margaret|c|who|was|born|in
april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|is|now|the|wife|of|thoma|tatnail|a|realest|dealer|of
wilmington|delawar|by|whom|she|has|three|children|imarjeri|henr
r|thoma|jr|georg|benjamin|who|was|born|in|june|18a5|and|has
held|sever|offici|posit|and|mari|acton|now|the|wife|of|r|wyatt
vistar|georg|b|has|been|a|member|of|the|board|of|educ|and|has
efifici|serv|as|the|citi|treasur|he|is|also|one|of|the|truste|of|the
presbyterian|church|the|famili|is|one|of|promin|in|the|communiti
hold|a|high|posit|in|social|circl|and|their|home|is|celebr|for|it
hospit
in|all|the|affair|which|concern|the|welfar|of|the|citi|mr|rumsey|take|a
deep|and|practic|interest|withhold|his|support|from|no|measur|or
movement|which|is|calcul|to|advanc|the|public|prosper|he|is|one|of
the|charter|member|of|the|new|jersey|branch|of|the|son|of|the|revolu
tion|is|a|member|of|the|presbvterian|church|and|one|of|it|elder|he|doe
congression|district|of|new|jersey|twenty-nine
all|in|lii|power|to|promot|the|growth|of|the|church|and|contribut|veri
liheral|to|it|support|he|is|courteous|genial|well|inform|alert|and|en
terpris
the|salem|nation|bank|compani
the|salem|nation|bank|compani|of|salem|new|jersey|has|had|a
long|and|prosper|career|it|was|first|establish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|as|the|salem
steam|mil|bank|compani|of|which|william|n|jefer|was|presid
and|william|mulford|cashier|among|the|incorpor|of|the|compani
were|samuel|clement|richard|craven|daniel|garrison|benjamin|griscom
morri|hancock|william|n|jeffer|joseph|kill|william|mulford|jame
newel|jonathan|richman|jere
miah|stull|john|tuft|and|daniel
vanneman|who|were|elect|the
first|director
at|a|meet|of|the|board|of|di
rector|held|juli|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|the
steam|mill|was|order|sold|which
was|subsequ|done|and|the
bank|busi|continu|under
success|presid|and|cashier
as|follow|presid|john|g
mason|morri|hancock|and|calvin
belden|cashier|william|mulford
loui|p|smith|john|elwel|and
georg|c|rumsey|the|salem
nation|bank|compani|was|or
ganiz|in|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|under|the
act|of|legislatur|govern|such
institut|and|it|is|the|successor
of|the|old|bank|which|declar|a
dividend|at|it|close|out|of
one|hundr|per|cent|payabl|in|the|stock|of|the|new|organ|make|an
increas|of|capit|from|seventyf|to|one|hundr|and|fifti|thousand|dollar
among|the|incorpor|of|the|present|bank|were|georg|w|garrison
henri|b|ware|jonathan|woodnut|benjamin|acton|joseph|kill|o|b
stoughton|joseph|bassett|henri|m|rumsey|john|c|belden|jonathan
hous|isaac|johnson|edwin|a|vanneman|jame|oolman|and|charl
wood|all|now|dead|except|messr|rumsey|and|belden|georg|w|garrison
thirty
biograph|histori|of|the|first
die|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|was|succeed|one|y|charl|wood|who|die|in
octob|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|was|succeed|by|c|m|eakin|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|was
succeed|by|exsen|wyatt|w|miller|the|present|incumb|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
mr|ware|resign|the|cashiership|on|account|of|fail|health|and|was|suc
ceed|by|benjamin|acton|henri|m|rumsey|be|elect|assist|cash
ier|at|the|death|of|mr|acton|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|ir|rumsey|was|elect
cashier|and|f|m|acton|was|made|assist
it|has|had|a|prosper|career|and|enjoy|the|confid|of|the|general
public|occupi|a|well|merit|posit|in|tjie|bank|circl|of|the|coun
tri|it|is|in|charg|of|effici|and|oblig|offic|who|are|men|of|integ
riti|and|well|calcul|to|take|charg|of|a|busi|of|that|proport|the
director|elect|at|the|last|annual|meet|were|robert|s|bunt|john|m
carpent|georg|hire|jacob|hous|l|a|d|allen|wyatt|w|miller
henri|m|rumsey|tlioma|sinnickson|jr|and|josiah|summeril|presi
dent|wyatt|w|miller|and|cashier|henri|m|rumsey|who|has|been|offici
connect|with|the|institut|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|prove|himself|a|capabl|and
effici|man|the|capit|stock|of|the|compani|is|one|hundr|and|fifti
thousand|dollar|it|has|individu|deposit|rang|from|three|hundr|and
fifti|thousand|to|over|a|half|million|dollar|while|it|real|estat|is|worth|over
fifti|thousand|dollar|the|par|valu|of|the|stock|is|fifti|dollar|but|now|sell
for|more|than|one|hundr|while|the|regular|annual|dividend|rang|from
ten|to|twelv|per|cent
tlie|build|occupi|by|the|salem|nation|bank|compani|is|one|of
the|finest|in|southern|new|jersey|and|was|erect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|it|is|command
ing|in|appear|conveni|locat|on|broadway|near|the|head|of|mar
ket|street|and|is|both|conveni|and|ornament|it|is|a|twostori|brick
structur|with|stone|trim|a|compromis|between|plain|and|ornament
that|give|a|pleas|appear|the|front|be|of|a|turret|style|of|architec
ture|heavi|openwork|iron|door|with|glass|in|the|insid|guard|the|en
tranc|which|is|through|a|vault|vestibul|the|inner|door|of|heavi|oak|and
glass|admit|to|the|bank|room|which|is|veri|commodi|open|to|the
roof|and|well|light|the|ceil|be|beauti|finish|and|fresco
back|of|these|is|the|vault|massiv|and|both|burglar|and|fire|proof|in|appear
anc|as|well|as|fact|it|is|of|the|diebold|pattern|with|all|the|improv
the|door|is|secur|by|time|and|combin|lock|and|in|the|vault|are|the
cash|box|also|guard|by|a|time|lock|and|deposit|box|for|the|accommoda
tion|of|the|public|in|the|rear|of|the|vault|is|a|larg|room|for|the|use|of
those|have|deposit|box|and|is|furnish|with|a|larg|hardwood|tabl
stationari|washstand|and|other|conveni|to|the|right|are|the|presi
dent|s|and|cashier|s|room|which|are|handsomelv|furnish|with|hardwood
congression|district|of|new|jersey|thirty-one
corner|mantel|and|open|fireplac|the|floor|be|cover|with|a|handsom
velvet|carpet|abov|these|are|the|director|the|watchman|s|and|the|toilet
room|all|furnish|in|the|same|general|manner|the|partit|are|part
of|heavi|plate|glass|so|that|the|front|of|the|build|is|alway|within|easi
view|the|entir|insid|finish|is|of|quarter|oak|there|be|ampl|space|in
the|bank|room|for|the|accommod|of|the|public|there|is|a|small
room|on|each|side|of|the|entranc|which|is|suppli|with|tabl|and|chair
for|the|conveni|of|the|bank|s|patron|and|there|are|ampl|seat|and|desk
accommod|to|render|the|transact|of|busi|both|invit|and
pleasant|the|build|is|heat|throughout|by|hot|air|indirect|from|a
boiler|in|the|basement|this|part|has|a|cement|floor|and|is|construct|with
the|same|thorough|that|character|the|entir|build|it|can|be
light|either|by|gas|or|electr|and|is|suppli|with|burglar|alarm|tlie
entir|build|be|thorough|ventil|by|an|automat|arrang
over|the|entranc|is|the|profil|cut|in|stone|of|the|late|major|benjamin
acton|so|long|connect|with|the|bank|and|who|was|the|cashier|at|the|time
of|his|death|the|build|was|erect|under|the|supervis|of|the|archi
tect|david|evan|of|philadelphia|and|is|a|credit|to|his|skill|and|the|enter
prise|of|the|director|under|whom|it|was|erect
the|van|ieter|fa|iili
ancestr|note|relat|to|the|van|meter|famili|of|salem|counti|new
jersey|and|their|connect|are|present|in|this|compil
some|centuri|ago|a|part|of|the|provinc|of|gelderland|in|the|nether
land|was|call|meteren|it|is|thought|the|peopl|who|went|from|that
town|came|to|be|call|by|it|van|indic|from|howev|that|may
be|the|name|in|various|spell|has|been|born|by|peopl|who|have|dis
tinguish|themselv|in|religi|and|literari|labor|jacob|van|meteren
of|antwerp|caus|the|first|complet|edit|of|the|bibl|to|be|print|in
the|english|languag|this|book|was|publish|at|zurich|in|one thousand, five hundred and thirty-six|and|was
a|great|and|expens|work|it|is|suppos|that|van|meteren|made|the
translat|himself|employ|an|english|scholar|mile|coverdal|to
supervis|the|print|to|guard|against|error|in|the|translat|joost|van
meter|wrote|a|histori|of|holland|in|one thousand, five hundred and ninety-seven|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|van|meter|were|livino
there|respect|educ|and|wealthi
a|well|known|american|name|is|that|of|the|rev|william|c|van|meter
connect|at|one|time|with|the|five|point|mission|in|new|york|citi|after
ward|the|organ|of|numer|school|for|italian|children|in|rome|also
thirty-two
biograph|histori|of|the|first
miss|martha|van|marter|who|was|for|ear|the|associ|editor|of|the|sun
day|school|advoc|a|children|s|paper|publish|in|new|york|citi
histori|attest|the|fact|that|the|seventeenth|centun|was|mark|by
numer|expedit|of|settler|from|mani|land|to|this|countn|their
home|their|marriag|the|birth|and|subsequ|scatter|of|their|chil
dren|are|in|evid|here|and|there|by|such|record|of|ancient|religi
and|civic|organ|as|have|been|preserv|the|baptism|and|mar
riag|regist|of|the|old|dutch|church|of|kingston|ulster|counti|new
york|former|name|wiltwych|and|familiar|call|esopus|or|sopus
for|one|hundr|and|fifti|year|from|their|commenc|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty|have
been|transcrib|and|edit|by|rosvvel|randal|hoo|tliey|give|glimps
of|the|famili|which|had|a|part|in|it|histori|van|meter|van|maitr|and
van|meteren|are|found|in|connect|with|two|of|those|great|epoch|of
the|human|race|birth|and|marriag|the|name|delamet|de|lametr
etc|in|kingston|as|earli|as|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|seem|to|indic|a|french|branch|of|the
famili
in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|joost|janz|also|written|jansen|j|m|young|man|of|meteren
in|gelderland|holland|live|then|in|what|is|now|known|as|marbletown
ulster|counti|new|york|was|marri|to|sara|du|boi|j|d|young|woman
of|kingston|in|the|same|counti|the|first|public|of|the|bann|was|the
l8th|of|novemb|sara|du|boi|was|a|daughter|of|loui|du|boi|and
katryn|also|written|catr|n|and|catharin|blanshan|who|in|turn|was|the
daughter|of|matthi|blanshan|and|madelin|jorisen|of|artoi|franc
katryn|blanshan|marri|loui|du|boi|anoth|french|huguenot|at
mannheim|germani|octob|ten|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-five|the|blanshan|with|three|of|their
children|came|to|esopus|ulster|counti|new|york|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty|in|the|ship
gild|otter|as|it|is|state|that|loui|du|boi|and|his|wife|arriv|the
same|year|at|the|same|place|no|doubt|they|came|togeth
among|the|tradit|of|that|pioneer|period|is|one|prove|that|music
had|charm|to|sooth|the|savag|american|breast|dure|an|absenc|of
loui|du|boi|his|wife|three|of|the|children|and|other|were|captur|by|the
indian|the|wood|upon|which|catherin|du|boi|had|been|place|was
about|to|be|fire|when|she|lift|up|her|heart|in|prayer|to|god|and|her|voic
in|sacr|song|awe|by|the|plaintiv|tone|her|captor|delay|their|cruel
purpos|to|hear|more|of|the|strang|sweet|sound|deliver|came
her|husband|and|his|companion|warn|by|a|friend|indian|rush|upon
the|scene|the|indian|fled|and|the|precious|live|were|save|loui|and
catharin|du|boi|were|the|parent|of|ten|children|seven|of|them|son|the
name|is|still|in|ulster|counti|and|in|mani|section|of|the|unit|state|the
silver|snuffbox|which|had|been|in|the|familv|from|the|dav|of|the|earliest
congression|district|of|xeiv|jersey|thirty-three
settler|was|recent|place|in|the|memori|hous|at|new|paltz|new
york|a|coat|of|arm|is|engrav|upon|it|lid
loui|du|boi|die|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-six|his|widow|marri|a|french|merchant
of|kingston|jean|cottin|or|cottyn|under|date|of|septemb|5th|one thousand, seven hundred and three
an|interest|entri|is|found|in|the|book|of|the|old|dutch|church|refer
to|rachel|their|slave|age|seventeen|year|she|had|profess|her|faith
and|receiv|the|sacrament|of|holi|baptism|she|also|promis|to|serv|her
mistress|and|master|faith|until|their|death|afterward|she|was|to|be|at
liberti|and|free|this|is|perhap|the|first|record|instanc|in|this|countri
of|the|free|of|a|slave
it|is|believ|there|were|other|children|of|joost|j|van|jnieteren|and|sara
du|boi|but|the|onli|birth|report|in|repli|to|inquiri|is|that|of|rebecca
baptiz|april|twenty-six|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|the|sponsor|were|gysbert|crom|and|catryn|du
boi|septemb|three|one thousand, seven hundred and four|rebecca|van|meteren|was|marri|to|corn
elt|a|son|of|jan|elten|and|jacomyntj|slecht|a|sister|and|brother|by
the|name|of|van|meter|marri|a|brother|and|sister|by|the|name|of|elt
suppos|to|be|rebecca|s|brother|and|the|sister|of|corn|the|baptism
of|three|of|the|children|of|corn|elt|and|rebecca|van|meteren|are
record|in|the|regist|of|the|old|dutch|church|at|kingston|isaak|oc
tober|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and eight|zara|februari|six|one hundred and seventy-one|five|jan|van|meteren|one|of|the|four
sponsor|alida|eleanor|may|three|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four|sara|elt|marri|john|hite
eleanor|elt|marri|isaac|hite|and|rebecca|van|meter|daughter|of
isaac|van|meter|marri|abraham|hite|three|of|the|eight|children|of
han|joost|heydt|and|anna|maria|du|boi|as|late|as|one hundred and seventy-one thousand and eleven|the|name
of|van|meter|elt|du|boi|and|hite|all|kindr|were|found|in|king
ston|new|york|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|no|tradit|of|the|van|meter|were|obtain
in|the|counti|the|name|was|not|in|the|kingston|directori
bommel|in|the|netherland|in|the|same|provinc|of|gelderland|from
which|joost|j|van|meteren|came|was|the|birthplac|march|ten|one thousand, six hundred and fifty|of
kreijn|a|son|of|jan|gysbertsen|metrn|as|he|wrote|his|name|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-three
kreijn|came|with|his|father|to|new|amsterdam|although|the|father|use|a
differ|spell|in|the|old|record|of|king|counti|long|island|and|on
the|record|of|the|first|dutch|church|of|monmouth|counti|new|jersey|the
name|is|spell|van|metra|van|meter|van|meteren|and|in|sever|other
way|the|father|was|well|off|financi|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-three|he|was|comfort|set
tled|at|new|utrecht|long|island|and|one|of|the|magistr|of|that|town
in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|he|was|a|deacon|in|the|dutch|church|there|is|a|tradit|that|jan
guysbertsen|metrn|refus|to|take|the|oath|of|allegi|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|and|soon
after|went|back|to|his|fatherland|but|his|son|kreijn|jans|took|the|oath|of
allegi|to|the|english|govern|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|he|is|then|mention|as|a
thirty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
resid|of|new|utrecht|long|island|in|a|census|of|king|counti|taken
in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|his|name|is|spell|cryn|jansen|and|he|has|a|famili|of|four|chil
dren|he|was|marri|septemb|nine|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|to|neeltj|eleanor|daughter
of|jan|john|van|qeef|and|engeltj|pietersen|jan|van|cleef|had|come
from|holland|in|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-three|and|settl|at|new|utrecht|in|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-nine
kreijn|van|matr|a|later|spell|and|his|wife|are|name|among|the
first|member|and|organ|of|the|dutch|church|of|monmouth|counti
new|jersey|he|is|enter|on|the|church|record|as|kriin|jansen|and|in
one thousand, seven hundred and sixteen|when|elder|as|kriin|van|metra|other|children|were|born|in|mon
mouth|counti|the|name|came|to|be|written|van|mater|their|descend
ant|were|veri|numer|some|of|them|are|wide|scatter|and|there|is|no
uniform|way|of|spell|the|surnam|joseph|van|mater|the|fifth|and
youngest|son|born|februari|five|seventeen|ten|marri|sarah|roelofs|schanck|of
their|six|children|onli|three|surviv|to|grow|up|and|marri
joseph|live|on|and|farm|the|old|homestead|where|kreijn|jans|first
settl|the|famili|graveyard|is|on|these|premis|and|reserv|forev|for
that|purpos|by|the|will|of|joseph|van|mater|to|this|branch|of|the|van
mater|monmouth|counti|is|larg|indebt|for|the|blood|stock|of|hors
for|which|the|counti|becam|celebr|dure|the|first|half|of|the|present
centuri
the|item|in|regard|to|kreijn|jans|van|mater|and|his|famili|have|been
gather|from|the|interest|paper|written|under|the|titl|of|earli|dutch
settler|by|judg|georg|crawford|beekman|for|the|freehold|tran
script|in|privat|letter|to|the|writer|of|this|articl|he|state|his|belief|that
the|salem|counti|new|jersey|and|virginia|van|meter|can|claim|kreijn
jans|van|mater|as|an|ancestor
it|is|not|improb|that|the|joost|jansen|van|meteren|of|ulster|counti
new|york|was|a|son|of|the|jan|gysbertsen|metrn|found|in|new|utrecht
long|island|if|not|a|son|a|kinsman|the|fact|that|both|came|from|the
same|provinc|gelderland|is|a|confirm|of|this|theori|and|the|histori
of|kingston|new|york|by|marius|schoonmak|show|the|close|connec
tion|between|the|settler|of|ulster|counti|and|long|island|the|tradit
here|point|to|ulster|counti|new|york|and|the|associ|suggest|joost
jansen|and|sara|du|boi|for|ancestor|it|has|alway|been|understood|that
the|famili|of|monmouth|and|salem|counti|were|relat|the|older|gener
ation|visit|each|other|but|time|with|it|inevit|chang|brought|newer
and|stronger|tie
no|histori|of|the|earli|van|meter|in|ani|of|their|branch|in|ani|part
of|the|unit|state|present|them|other|than|quiet|peopl|devot|to|their
famili|obey|the|scriptur|injunct|in|mind|their|own|busi
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jershv|thirty-five
lover|and|organ|of|religi|servic|believ|in|educ|and|own
er|of|extens|tract|of|land|and|fine|hors|these|have|been|characterist
trait|in|salem|countv|the|name|as|first|record|in|the|clerk|s|offic|at
salem|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen|is|spell|van|meter|and|ever|sinc|it|has|appear|the|same
way|with|and|without|the|capit|m|for|meter
between|one thousand, seven hundred and twelve|and|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen|the|region|now|known|as|upper|pittsgrov|and
beyond|it|began|to|be|settl|iji|peopl|from|new|ork|long|island|new
england|and|east|jersev|the|fever|of|emigr|was|in|their|blood|it|has
never|whollv|die|out|john|and|isaac|van|meter|jacob|du|boi|and|his
sister|sarah|du|boi|from|ulster|counti|new|york|locat|three|thousand
acresof|land|purchas|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen|from|daniel|cox|of|burlington|new|jer
sey|they|divid|the|tract|by|the|compass|the|du|bois|take|on|the
north|side|of|the|line|the|an|meter|on|the|south|side|tlie|van|meter
continu|to|purchas|until|they|own|a|eri|larg|part|of|the|land|reach
ing|from|the|overshot|mill|in|upper|alloway|s|creek|near|daretown|south
erfi|southeast|to|fork|bridg|about|six|thousand|acr|in|all|and|most|of
the|titl|to|the|land|held|by|the|present|occup|go|back|to|the|van|meter
titl
a|firstclass|school|for|that|period|was|establish|by|the|new|arriv
some|of|the|most|distinguish|men|of|the|state|in|subsequ|year|were
proud|of|the|learn|obtain|by|them|at|the|pittsgrov|colleg|as|it|was
term|john|moor|white|an|associ|justic|of|the|suprem|court|and
also|attorney|general|was|educ|there|religi|servic|presum
after|the|dutch|reform|order|and|held|in|privat|hous|and|tlie|school
hous|were|not|neglect|the|first|hous|for|public|worship|stood|near
the|villag|of|woodstown|it|went|down|soon|after|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|tlie|date|of|it
build|and|the|memor|of|the|site|have|pass|away|may|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|ap
plicat|was|made|by|isaac|van|meter|to|the|philadelphia|presbyteri|in|be
half|of|himself|and|other|for|the|settlement|of|the|gospel|in|pile|grove
in|may|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|the|rev|david|evan|of|tredyffrin|pennsylvania|began
to|preach|to|the|congreg|and|april|thirty|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|a|presbyterian|church|was
organ|when|fortynin|member|sign|the|coenant|and|were|admittetl
to|the|enjoy|of|the|special|ordin|of|the|gospel|the|interest
list|is|taken|from|the|histori|of|the|presbyterian|church|of|pilesgrov|or
pittsgrov|in|the|compil|of|which|the|rev|allen|h|brown|labor
assidu|mr|brown|is|fit|call|a|modern|paul|he|has|been|the
historian|of|the|est|jersey|presbyteri|a|pastor|a|presbyteri|and|a|synod
ical|missionari|the|plan|of|synod|sustentati|in|the|brainerd|me
morial|fund|the|monument|to|the|rev|john|doyd|unveil|in|the|old|scot
burial|round|freehold|new|jersey|june|fourteen|one thousand, nine hundred|etc|are|due|to|him
thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
he|has|rais|thousand|of|dollar|in|the|prosecut|of|his|work|his|effort
in|behalf|of|sabbath|observ|and|all|his|hning|selfdeni|servic|of
more|than|half|a|centuri|in|new|jersey|have|been|a|live|testimoni|to|his
belief|in|the|doctrin|that|the|chief|end|of|man|is|to|glorifi|god
signer|of|the|church|coven|of|the|presbyterian|congreg|at|pile
grove|isaac|van|meter|hannah|his|wife|henri|van|meter|their|son
sarah|van|meter|their|daughter|cornelius|nieukirk|rachel|his|wife
abraham|nieukirk|their|son|barnet|du|boi|jacominche|his|wife
lewi|du|boi|margaret|his|wife|anna|their|daughter|garret|du|boi
margaret|his|wife|john|miller|mari|moor|widow|franci|tulli|han
nah|his|wife|jeremiah|garrison|mari|his|wife|eleazar|smith|mari|his
wife|william|alderman|abigail|his|wife|john|rose|mari|his|wife|si
mon|spark|jane|his|wife|thoma|spark|their|son|elizabeth|spark
their|daughter|richard|spark|elizabeth|his|wife|john|craig|mari|his
wife|sarah|carr|william|millar|mari|sherri|nathan|tarbel|priscilla
tulli|hugh|moor|hannah|his|wife|phebe|conklin|robert|tulli|s|wife
peter|haa|jame|dunlap|elizabeth|his|wife|jacob|du|boi|jr|joshua
garrison|sarah|his|wife|joost|millar|the|substanti|brick|build
known|as|the|old|church|was|erect|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|the|new|church|opposit
the|parsonag|was|dedic|august|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven
john|van|meter|s|name|doe|not|appear|in|the|coven|he|evid
went|to|virginia|after|locat|land|in|salem|counti|accord|to|the|hon
w|s|laidley|of|charleston|west|virginia|a|local|historian|the|first|white
peopl|to|travers|the|valley|of|virginia|were|john|and|isaac|van|metr
in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-five|john|van|metr|is|with|the|delawar|indian|on|the|hunt|of|the
catawba|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty|both|are|in|williamsburg|where|they|took|a|council
order|for|forti|thousand|acr|of|land|to|settl|the|same|by|coloni|etc|in
his|sketch|of|virginia|dr|foot|state|that|isaac|van|meter|the
founder|of|fort|pleasant|came|to|the|south|branch|of|the|potomac|in|the
year|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|in|compani|with|some|cayuga|indian|and|laid|a|tomahawk|right
on|what|has|been|known|for|the|last|centuri|as|the|old|field|he|went|back
to|his|home|and|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-four|he|move|there|with|his|famili
a|copi|of|the|will|of|isaac|van|metr|of|the|south|branch|of|potow
mach|in|the|counti|of|frederick|virginia|made|februari|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-four|is|re
cord|at|trenton|new|jersey|liber|twelve|seventeen million, six hundred and thirty-one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight|it|was|present|at
court|held|in|hampshir|counti|virginia|by|henri|and|garret|van|metr
surviv|executor|decemb|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|they|qualifi|befor|the|salem
counti|surrog|novemb|thirty|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight|where|the|name|is|written|van|meter
the|will|provid|for|his|dear|wife|hannah|as|long|as|she|shall|live|and
mention|the|follow|children|henri|jacob|garret|sarah|the|wife|of
congressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|thirty-seven
john|richman|catharin|vn|metr|rebecca|hite|the|wife|of|abraham
hue|and|hehta|van|metr|the|land|nr|the|provnc|of|new|jersey|are
to|remain|under|the|respect|leas|at|their|expiratmn|to|be|sold|at
public|vendu|to|the|highest|bidder|devis|land|in|virgnyou|slave|and
lnev|the|children|are|to|have|the|privileg|of|selhng|their|land|but|n
that|case|the|other|children|are|to|have|the|first|offer|so|they|y|keep|t
amongst|them|henri|appear|to|be|live|m|ngmia|at|the|t|me|gar
ett|iforn|in|februari|t73|remain|there|he|was|kdled|bv|t|e|in|n
near|fort|pleasant|april|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-eight|three|of|hs|seven|chddren|hved|to|mari
and|rais|famili|isaac|jacob|and|ann|the|daughter|mar|abe|sey
tnour|he|and|isaac|van|meter|repres|hardi|countv|m|the|asembh
when|the|constitut|of|the|unit|state|was|adopt|a|southern|an
meter|was|a|comrad|of|jame|monro|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|when|the
latter|becam|presid|colonel|aan|meter|spent|two|week|wuh|h|m|as
a|uest|in|the|white|hous|yn|meter|are|found|in|mani|o|the|southern
ami|western|state|the|conquest|of|the|northwest|by|henghsh
of|indianapoh|indiana|give|a|roll|of|the|offic|an|l|men|who|were|wth
general|georg|r|clark|when|he|captur|the|fort|m|the|northwest
kaskaskia|vincenn|etcn|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|land|was|allot|for|other|servic
call|the|clark|grant|jacob|vn|meter|obtam|_m5|acr|isaac
van|meter|one hundred and eight|acr
soon|after|obtain|their|warrant|for|forti|thousand|acr|of|land|m
vircxinia|john|and|isaac|van|meter|sold|the|same|to|jost|hite|as|he|came
to|wnte|his|name|and|two|year|laterin|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one|nd|sixteen|other|ann
lie|came|from|pennsvlvania|and|settl|west|of|the|blue|rdge|south|of
the|potomac|m|the|colonv|of|virginia|the|hite|prosper|the|descend
ant|of|john|hite|and|sara|elt|intermarri|with|the|washmgton
those|of|isaac|hite|and|eleanor|elt|with|the|madison|mauri|davi
son|and|mead|abraham|hite|and|rebecca|xn|meter|in|after|year|went
to|kentucki|that|state|is|said|to|be|full|of|their|descend|john|an
meter|had|a|daughter|elizabeth|who|marri|thoma|shepherd|former|of
marvland|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-four|thoma|shepherd|obtain|grant|of|land|m|virginia|and
iaid|out|mecklenburg|and|shepherdstown|the|shepherd|descenl|live
there|yet|this|famili|intermarri|with|the|lee
henri|van|mete|r|return|to|pittsgrov|he|is|said|to|have|marri
four|time|his|will|record|at|trenton|new|jersey|is|date|lay|two
i7s2|prove|decemb|eight|i759|the|follow|children|are|name|m|it
joseph|david|john|ephraim|fetter|benjamin|jacob|elizabeth|and|re
becca|eleven|the|land|two|thousand|four|hundr|acr|was|left|to|the|son
joseph|was|one|of|the|elder|chosen|bv|the|pittsgrov|church|m|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-two|to
thirty-eight|biograih|histori|op|the|first
assist|in|iiiiprov|the|method|tor|rais|tlie|minist|s|salan|littl|is
known|of|ani|of|henri|s|chikhen|and|their|nmnerous|descend|except
tlie|line|of|benjamin|he|was|horn|in|octoh|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-four|and|was|the|son|of
the|last|wife|mari|le|fevr|a|daughter|of|erasmus|le|fevr|afterward
corrupt|to|fetter|a|french|huguenot|who|with|his|wife|emigr
about|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|to|salem|from|england|whither|they|had|tie|other|of|the
name|becam|celebr|in|england|as|chemist|physician|silk|manufac
turer|etc|the|histori|of|the|le|fevr|in|the|unit|state|or|a
similar|titl|by|ralph|le|fevr|of|xew|paltz|xew|york|is|soon|to|be
publish|the|erasmus|le|fere|and|his|wife|who|came|to|salem|be
liev|to|ije|of|the|same|famili|as|hypolit|le|fevr|were|member|of
the|societi|of|friend|tliey|had|six|children|erasmus|thoma|sarah
mar|hannah|and|anoth|daughter|hose|name|is|not|given|thoma
shourd|in|his|histori|of|fenwick|s|coloni|has|trace|a|part|of|their
descend
benjamin|van|meter|marri|bathsheba|dunlap|who|was|born|in|oc
tober|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-seven|a|daughter|of|jame|dunlap|jr|gentleman|of|pittsgrov
his|commiss|as|captain|was|given|l|y|governor|franklin|pril|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three
he|die|septemb|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three|age|fortyeight|year|he|was|a|son|of
captain|jame|dunlap|sr|of|penn|s|neck|the|dunlap|protest|came
from|ireland|to|delawar|thenc|to|salem|count|where|they|began|to
purchas|properti|in|lagj|the|senior|dunlap|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight|his|will
mention|these|children|john|jame|thoma|mari|ann|jame|jr
marri|ann|hunter|they|had|one|son|and|two|daughter|bathshelja
and|mari|ann|hunter|dunlap|dietl|januari|sixteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|she|was|a|daugh
ter|of|robert|hunter|who|came|from|east|jersey|to|lower|lloway|s|creek
township|where|he|die|leav|a|widow|and|two|daughter|ann|and
mari|he|is|believ|to|be|a|descend|of|the|coloni|governor|of|the|same
name|the|hunter|were|distinguish|for|their|promin|in|the|pulpit
and|state|offic|and|for|their|learn|and|eloqu|mari|hunter|marri
samuel|purvianc|a|merchant|of|philadelphia|they|iiad|one|son|samuel
and|three|daughter|samuel|purianc|his|wife|and|son|are|buri|in|the
old|presbyterian|cemeteri|at|pittsgro|one|daughter|marri|william|p
leigh|of|virginia|the|eldest|daughter|of|samuel|and|mari|hunter|pur
vianc|was|mari|who|was|twice|marri|first|to|the|rev|samuel|eakin
pastor|of|the|presbyterian|church|at|penn|s|neck|also|call|quihawken
he|was|an|eloqu|preacher|and|an|ardent|patriot|their|children|were
samuel|hunter|ann|susan|and|joanna|samuel|hunter|eakin|marri
constanc|dumin|he|held|a|osit|in|franc|under|the|unit|state
govern|their|son|lphonso|l|settl|in|salem|to|practic|law|he
congression|district|of|new|lersey|thirty-nine
marri|eliza|t|sherron|they|had|two|son|loui|and|constant|m|the
er|die|in|h|s|youth|the|latter|marri|maria|smith|an|s|oe|pr
dent|of|the|salem|nation|bank|compani|at|the|time|of|hs|death|one|hey
had|two|daughterseleanor|york|and|constanc|dumm|one|eaku
rr|d|isl|hazelhurst|she|die|in|8o9|leav|hve|dl|ren|rcha
hnnter|samuel|isaac|jr|andrew|purvianc|and|mari|after|the|death|ol
rev|sard|eakin|his|widow|marri|dr|david|greenman|a|son|of|the
rev|nehliah|greenman|the|latter|was|the|pastor|of|the|pesgro|now
pittscrov|presbvterian|church|from|i753|to|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|he|also|supph|the
lurch|at|penn|s|neck|and|log|town|n|lower|alloway|s|creek|town
hip|rev|nehemiah|greenman|is|buri|in|the|pittsgrov|cemeteri|dr
mvid|greenman|and|his|wife|live|m|burlington|new|jersey|wheeh
die|dure|the|first|epidem|of|yellow|fever|m|i793|they|had|one|hild
joanna|who|marri|georg|bartram|shira|of|mount|hohi|one|of
hetrchildren|was|jame|eakin|shira|his|daughter|mar|purvanc|s
descend|through|her|mother|from|philip|chetwood|jf|f
ashton|who|live|and|die|in|salem|then|onli|remannng|ld|johnwa
carri|on|a|pillow|bv|hs|uncl|illiam|chetwood|on|horseback|to|eliza
beth|new|jersev|he|becam|a|justic|of|the|suprem|court|of|new|jersey
mr|purvianc|shira|marri|b|howel|campbel|of|et|jey
had|one|child|a|son|and|mr|campbel|trace|his|ancestri|through|the
howe|of|salem|new|jersey|to|john|ladd|who|assist|m|make|the
ir|of|philadelphia|for|william|penn|how|mani|famili|all|over|this
zl|other|state|are|link|to|salem|mrs|mari|purvianc|shira|camp
bo|elizabeth|and|miss|anna|hunter|van|meter|of|salem|are|botl
of|the|sixth|generat|from|robert|hunter|tle|former|descend|from
marv|hunten|the|latter|from|ann|hunter|they|met|for
at|the|gather|of|the|coloni|dame|of|new|jersev|m|salem|oc|ober
twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|and|the|next|day|they|stood|togeth|at|the|famili|grave|m|the
ancient|burial|place|in|pittsgrov|are|h|n|hi|an
benjamin|van|meter|and|his|wife|bathsheba|dunlap|live|on|his|an
cestral|estat|in|what|is|now|upper|pittsgrov|township|the|husband|as
a|rule|elder|in|the|presbyterian|church|he|was|a|slaveown|bvt|leld
ng|to|his|convict|of|the|injustic|of|the|system|he|liber|all|his|s|ave
befor|his|death|he|had|been|so|kind|a|master|howev|some|of|thm
refus|to|leav|him|benjamin|van|meter|depart|this|life|oeber
one hundred and eighty-six|his|wife|die|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|death|claim|them|both|at|eght
five|vear|of|age|their|children|were|jame|mari|ann|sarah|erasmus
fetter|robert|hunter|and|bathsheba|sarah|and|fetter|die|m|their
infanc|five|marri|from|each|of|whom|there|are|one|or|more|live|de
forty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
scendant|at|this|date|one thousand, nine hundred|mari|marri|matthew|newkirk|erasmus
mari|burrough|bathsheba|marri|wilham|iayhev|jame|and|robert
hunter|becam|identifi|with|salem
jame|van|meter|the|oldest|child|of|benjamin|and|bathsheba|dunlaii
van|meter|was|boni|may|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|was|educ|at|the|pittsgrov|colleg
studi|under|dr|harri|a|note|physician|in|the|local|attend|lectur
at|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|was|examin|by|drs|scott|and
sayr|of|burlington|new|jersey|licens|by|two|justic|of|the|suprem
court|and|admit|to|practic|his|profess|may|five|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|after|a|year|at
hancock|s|bridg|he|came|to|salem|where|he|had|an|extens|practic
until|his|death|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|h|is|biograph|say|no|physician|i
believ|ever|live|in|this|counti|possess|a|more|spotless|reput|nor
did|there|ever|die|one|more|sincer|regret|in|his|profession|and
privat|life|he|was|a|bless|and|an|ornament|to|the|communiti|he|was
a|surgeon|in|the|war|of|eighteen|twelve|in|the|local|he|was|one|of|the|founder
of|the|presbyterian|church|in|salem|unit|with|it|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and|was|chosen
for|a|rule|elder|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|he|bequeath|the|dunlap|farm|inherit|from
his|mother|to|the|church|he|marri|ruth|jone|a|daughter|of|thoma
jone|a|lead|busi|man|and|a|revolutionari|hero|march|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight
mrs|ruth|jone|van|meter|was|the|first|treasur|of|the|femal|benevol
societi|organ|in|eighteen|seventeen|and|the|first|superintend|of|the|presbyterian
sabbathschool|organ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four
their|onli|child|thoma|jone|van|meter|born|februar|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-nine
after|a|classic|educ|at|the|colleg|of|new|jersey|in|princeton|gradu
ate|as|a|physician|in|philadelphia|but|he|never|practic|outsid|of|the
famili|owe|to|deaf|give|his|attent|to|read|and|the|care|of|his
inherit|estat|he|marri|hannah|foster|keasbey|daughter|of|anthoni
and|hannah|keasbey|of|salem|april|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|mrs|hannah|van|meter
took|a|live|interest|in|social|and|church|affair|she|die|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
dr|thoma|jone|van|meter|die|august|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|there|were|four|chil
dren|by|this|marriag|thoma|jone|artemisia|keasbey|martha|jone
and|jame|anthoni|the|first|child|die|in|his|infanc|the|last|in|his|child
hood|the|daughter|were|promin|social|in|the|year|of|their|strength
activ|in|the|work|of|the|town|particular|dure|the|civil|war|in|the|ladi
aid|societi|but|they|have|been|especi|distinguish|for|privat|benevo
lenc|and|attach|to|the|presbyterian|church|with|which|they|unit
miss|artemisia|keasbey|van|meter|die|januari|sixteen|one thousand, nine hundred|her|sister|miss
martha|jone|van|meter|is|the|onli|live|descend|of|dr|jame|and
ruth|jone|an|meter|her|home|is|still|in|the|hous|built|on|properti
inherit|by|her|mother|in|the|keasbey|famili|from|one thousand, seven hundred and nine|and|the|jone
congression|district|of|new|jersey|forty-one
and|van|meter|estat|have|never|been|sold|few|famili|in|the|counti
or|in|the|countri|have|retain|ownership|and|occup|of|land|for|so
mani|year|the|tenur|of|tenant|has|been|more|like|the|english|than|the
usual|american|custom
robert|hunter|van|meter|the|seventh|child|of|benjamin|and|bathsheba
dunlap|van|meter|was|born|on|his|father|s|farm|novemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|and
educ|at|the|pittsgrov|colleg|he|studi|medicin|in|the|offic|of|his
brother|dr|jame|van|meter|in|salem|and|spent|his|winter|in|phila
delphia|attend|lectur|certif|were|given|him|by|drs|benjamin
rush|and|jame|woodhous|of|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in|march
one thousand, eight hundred|and|drs|jame|stratton|and|ebenez|elmer|of|bridgeton|new|jer
sey|he|receiv|his|licens|as|a|physician|and|surgeon|from|the|suprem
court|june|ten|one thousand, eight hundred|and|began|his|profession|life|in|pittsgrov|he|mar
rie|rachel|burrough|of|the|same|place|who|live|onli|three|month|his
second|wife|was|sarah|leak|hitak|a|daughter|of|ambros|and|rachel
leak|whitak|they|were|marri|novemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and four|he|came|with
his|famili|to|salem|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|was|draft|to|go
to|canada|but|he|was|transfer|to|the|care|of|the|sick|and|wound|of
the|regiment|then|station|at|salem|for|the|protect|of|the|delawar|and
it|branch|the|old|jail|at|the|corner|an|express|familiar|to|former
generat|was|use|as|a|hospit|dr|robert|hunter|van|meter|held
various|offic|and|repres|his|counti|in|the|state|legislatur|he|was
a|man|of|scientif|tast|and|of|much|intellectu|vigor|his|practic|was
i|larg|and|attend|by|much|exposur|but|he|was|untir|by|night|and
day|often|himself|more|i|will|than|his|patient|he|has|the|honor|of|be
the|first|resid|presbyterian|in|salem|have|unit|with|the|church|of
that|faith|in|pittsgrov|he|was|one|of|the|founder|of|the|salem|presbi
terian|church|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|one|of|the|first|elder|chosen|the|same|year|and|re
markabl|devot|to|it|give|as|has|been|said|his|time|prayer|and|money
with|cordial|zeal|and|affect|it|was|he|who|collect|four|hundr|dol
lar|in|one|day|toward|the|erect|of|a|build|a|larg|sum|for|the|period
and|peopl|interest|he|die|march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|after|a|short|but|sever
ill|his|wife|die|august|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|in|her|sixtieth|year
of|their|eight|children|three|jame|robert|and|josiah|die|in|their
infanc|the|five|who|live|to|matur|were|emma|mari|edward|iason
and|harriet|emma|born|septemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and five|render|an|import|ser
vice|to|the|futur|historian|of|the|salem|presbyterian|church|she|began
at|the|request|of|her|father|it|histori|from|the|time|of|the|lay|of|the
cornerston|with|such|anteced|fact|relat|to|the|church|of|penn|s
neck|and|logtow|n|as|slie|could|gather|she|was|then|sixteen|vear|of|age
forty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
her|imparti|account|of|it|rise|and|progress|wit|biograph|sketch|of
the|pastor|was|continu|to|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|miss|emma|van|meter|die|near|balti
more|maryland|novemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|mari|van|meter|born|march|two
one thousand, eight hundred and eight|marri|eno|r|peas|of|connecticut|april|six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|she|die|april
seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|leav|an|infant|son|alvin|robert|who|die|at|allegheni|citi
pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|although|so|young|he|was|the|organist|in|a|church
there|and|had|compos|a|piec|of|music|to|which|he|gave|the|name|of
salem
edward|van|meter|born|novemb|twenty-five|one hundred and eighty-one|one|was|educ|in|the|excel
lent|privat|school|taught|by|clergjmen|for|which|salem|was|then|note
he|began|the|studi|of|law|in|the|oic|of|franci|l|macculloch|but|befor
his|studi|were|complet|he|abandon|them|for|mercantil|pursuit|in
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|he|was|unanim|elect|a|justic|of|the|peac|and|continu|to|be
reelect|until|he|declin|to|serv|he|final|return|to|the|studi|of|law
finish|his|cours|under|alphonso|l|eakin|and|was|admit|to|the|bar
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four
the|histori|of|salem|counti|give|the|follow|pen|pictur|per
hap|no|man|was|better|known|in|salem|counti|than|edward|van|meter
for|dure|an|unusu|busi|life|as|student|merchant|magistr|and|law
yer|most|of|which|was|pass|in|his|nativ|place|the|public|eye|was|con
stant|upon|him|his|intercours|with|all|class|of|peopl|was|such|that|he
may|be|said|to|have|been|an|encyclopedia|of|the|public|affair|of|salem
counti|and|he|was|thorough|post|on|the|status|of|everi|busi|man
as|a|lawyer|his|practic|was|larg|not|as|an|advoc|in|the|court|for
deaf|with|which|he|had|been|afflict|for|mani|year|preclud|such
public|effort|but|in|his|offic|where|client|constant|solicit|his|advic
and|counsel|in|real|estat|and|agricultur|matter|his|judgment|was|al
way|sought|and|few|men|in|the|counti|knew|as|well|as|he|the|valu|of
the|various|plantat|for|product|and|inest|he|was|prompt
and|correct|in|busi|keen|in|judgment|uick|in|action|energet|in|his
everi|movement|selfassur|in|his|ventur|and|thus|a|type|of|the|rare|class
of|men|who|depend|upon|themselv|a|love|of|good|hors|a|famili|trait
was|one|of|his|promin|characterist|and|his|name|is|well|known|to
the|horsemen|of|the|countri|through|his|correspond|with|mr|j|h|wal
lace|his|knowledg|of|the|local|hors|histori|of|west|and|south|jersev
was|wonder|extens|and|accur|he|die|januari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five
he|marri|carolin|whitak|of|deerfield|cumberland|counti|new
jersey|a|daughter|of|isaac|whitak|esq|and|ann|fithian|decemb|fourteen
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|mrs|van|meter|is|still|live|their|children|are|mari|carolin
harriet|f|and|anna|hunter|all|of|whom|have|been|with|their|mother
congression|district|of|xeir|jersev|forty-three
actvelv|ulentifi|w|th|the|work|of|the|presbytenan|hurcl|of|vlnch|they
are|member|and|with|philanthrop|effort|m|the|town|they|were|care
e|ucat|at|privat|s|chool|in|salem|and|at|ivi|hall|snari|bndge
ton|new|jersey|they|have|the|pen|of|readi|wnter|evden|ed|n|th
paper|prepar|for|the|woman|s|club|and|other|organ|a|the
present|tin|e|m|carolin|is|a|director|in|the|needlework|guild|si|e
l|esthet|and|artist|harriet|f|is|the|record|secretari|of|le
local|w|c|t|you|have|previous|serv|as|the|presid|of|the|lo|al
legurand|presid|of|the|y|s|she|is|the|chairman|of|the|temper
committe|n|the|presbyterian|church|and|frequent|write|for|ui|locl
paper|in|behalf|of|the|becaus|a|paper|written|by|her|for|a|counti|c|k
youonvent|has|been|print|as|a|leaflet|she|is|the|supermtenden|o|the
primari|depart|of|the|sabbathschool|and|has|at|differ|period|held
vlous|offic|in|the|local|church|for|nineteen|year|she|has|been|the|secr
aryf|the|woman|s|foreign|missionari|societi|of|the|west|jersey|presbj
e|v|nna|hunter|is|the|secretari|of|the|societi|for|organ|chariti|in
he|citi|of|salem|also|of|the|counti|work|in|the|state|chanti|aid|asso
cltion|repres|m|it|board|of|manag|and|she|is|a|director|of|the|ne
tersev|legal|aid|associ|her|l|ook|relic|of|e|olden|day|n
s|cx|new|jersey|you|s|a|was|the|outcom|of|aborfor|the
world|s|fair|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|was|publish|at|her|own|expens|she|as|at
the|head|of|the|salem|countv|committe|to|gather|antiqu|furnitur|foi|mis
potter|palmer|s|privat|offic|in|the|woman|s|build|that|memor
year|in|chicago|the|ancient|thing|go|and|return|in|safeti|a|truste
of|evelyn|coheg|princeton|new|jersey|dure|it|brief|exist|the_
treasur|of|the|labbathschool|offici|connect|with|church|missionari
work|local|and|in|the|presbyteri|and|is|given|to|genealog|studi
mason|van|meter|the|sixth|child|of|dr|robert|hunter|a|an|metei|and
sarah|leak|whitak|was|born|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|he|has|resid
n|salem|he|was|former|engag|in|the|grain|busi|but|for|man
vear|past|he|has|led|a|life|of|leisur|he|is|the|presid|of|the|fenwiek
clul|a|social|organ|limit|to|twenti|member|form|octobei|_
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|of|the|two|origin|member|now|live|onli|mr|van|meter|remain
an|activ|member|of|the|club|t
harriet|van|meter|the|voungest|child|of|dr|robert|hunter|van|metei
and|sarah|l|whitak|was|born|juli|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|she|was|educ|at|the
salem|classic|academi|she|marri|a|presbyterian|niimster|the|rev
revilo|jonathan|cone|of|new|york|juli|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|mr|cone|was|the|son
of|the|rev|jonathan|cone|and|al|igail|cleveland|usher|on|his|mo|her|s
side|he|was|directlv|lescenl|from|archbishop|usher|of|ireland|and|con
forty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
nect|with|mani|old|new|england|famili|qeveland|holm|etc
mr|cone|die|in|new|york|citi|decemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|in|a|few|month
mrs|cone|return|to|salem|she|is|a|woman|of|rare|mental|gift|shown
in|her|linguist|and|artist|attain|abil|as|a|writer|and|her|conver
sation|charm|for|she|retain|much|of|the|vivac|of|her|youth|she|re
member|see|the|old|dutch|clock|that|came|from|holland|brought|by
the|earli|van|meter|to|salem|counti|of|which|no|trace|can|now|be|found
in|her|eightieth|year|she|has|been|engag|in|help|to|write|and|collect
biograph|sketch|of|the|salem|counti|contributor|to|the|new|jersey
scrap|book|which|was|compil|by|mrs|margaret|t|yardley|and|pub
lish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|by|the|state|board|of|women|manag|for|the|world|s|fair
of|mrs|cone|s|numer|literari|composit|none|has|given|more|plea
ure|to|her|friend|than|saturday|night|in|salem|written|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|all|the
local|flavor|is|in|it|told|in|her|own|spright|style
she|has|surviv|both|her|children|norri|hunter|born|may|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty
and|charl|kirtland|born|decemb|thirty|one hundred and eighty-five|one|the|latter|a|veri|winsom
child|die|in|gaylordsvill|connecticut|june|twenty-two|i860|her|first|born|die
in|denver|colorado|june|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|on|the|previous|21st|of|march|he|had
marri|madg|mcbrayer|morgan|norri|hunter|cone|went|to|colorado
after|his|graduat|at|lafayett|colleg|easton|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|to
practic|his|profess|of|mine|engin|in|which|he|rose|to|emin|he
could|scent|valuabl|ore|and|through|his|invent|genius|he|was|abl|to
make|need|improv|to|the|machineri|use|in|the|crush|mill
his|death|was|a|great|loss|to|the|mine|interest|in|this|countri|as|an
expert|he|was|in|demand|everywher|his|judgment|in|select|workmen
his|tact|in|deal|with|them|his|human|kind|to|them|and|his|devot
to|whatev|he|undertook|made|him|a|great|relianc|his|sudden|remov
left|a|vacanc|which|those|who|had|lean|upon|him|said|could|never|be
fill
williai|t|hilliard
the|proper|studi|of|mankind|is|man|said|pope|and|asid|from|this
in|it|broader|sens|what|base|of|studi|and|inform|concern|human
affair|have|we|genealog|research|then|has|it|valu|be|it|in|the
trace|of|an|obscur|and|lroken|line|or|the|follow|back|of|a|nobl|and
illustri|lineag|whose|men|have|been|valor|whose|women|of|gentl
refin|we|of|this|endofthecenturi|democrat|type|can|not|afford
to|scoff|at|or|to|holcl|in|light|esteem|the|bear|up|of|a|scutcheon|upon
coagressiox|district|of|new|jersey|forty-five
whose|fair|face|appear|no|sign|of|blot|and|he|should|thus|be|the|more
honor|who|honor|a|nobl|name|and|the|memori|of|nobl|deed|the|line
age|of|the|subject|of|this|review|is|one|of|distinguish|and|interest|order
and|no|apolog|need|be|made|in|revert|to|this|in|connect|with|the
individu|accomplish|of|the|subject|himself
the|hilliard|famili|is|of|frenchhuguenot|extract|and|has|had|an
american|set|of|sever|generat|it|identif|with|the|new
world|date|back|to|the|earli|coloni|epoch|flee|from|their|nativ
land|to|escap|the|impious|persecut|incid|to|the|revoc|of|the
edict|of|nant|the|origin|huguenot|ancestor|left|franc|dure|the
reign|of|loui|xhi|and|sought|refug|in|england|where|the|name|has
ever|sinc|had|honor|repres|and|whenc|came|the|origin|ameri
can|stock|in|this|countri|the|foundat|of|the|hilliard|famili|anted
the|settlement|of|pennsylvania|by|penn|and|that|of|new|jersey|under|the
english|proprietor|thus|the|name|is|one|of|the|oldest|and|most|honor
in|the|annal|of|american|histor|and|the|sterl|characterist|of|those
l|ear|the|name|in|the|various|generat|may|be|clear|recogn|when
we|revert|to|the|fact|that|they|have|been|identifi|with|that|nobl|religi
bodi|the|societi|of|friend|whose|verj|exist|has|been|at|all|time|an
exampl|of|unassum|worth|and|deepest|humanitarian|as|a|famili
the|hilliarfl|have|been|notabl|for|inflex|integr|firm|consistencv
abil|and|thrift
john|hilliard|the|emigr|ancestor|came|to|america|from|london
england|prior|to|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|locat|in|sussex|counti|delawar|which|section
w|as|then|a|portion|of|pennsylvania|he|was|a|man|of|mark|intellectu
and|was|an|influenti|factor|in|the|affair|of|the|coloni|have|been|one
of|the|three|counti|judg|summon|by|william|penn|to|meet|him|at|up
land|now|chester|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|and|he|was|a|member|of|the|first
provinci|council|of|pennsylvania|which|met|at|philadelphia|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|his
son|john|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-nine|had|previous|cross|the|delawar|river|to|new
jersey|and|there|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|martha
the|onli|daughter|of|barnard|w|devonish|who|was|one|of|the|new|jersey
proprietor|and|a|larg|landown|of|this|marriag|six|children|were|born
of|whom|the|eldest|was|edward|who|marri|sarah|hain|who|bore|him
nine|children|samuel|the|fifth|child|of|edward|and|sarah|hain|hilliard
marri|hannah|atkinson|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|six|children
they|took|up|their|abod|in|salem|counti|new|jersey|and|the|famili|name
has|ever|sinc|been|conspicu|identifi|with|this|section|of|the|state
joseph|hilliard|the|sixth|child|of|samuel|and|hannah|hilliard|marri|ann
thompson|and|they|made|their|home|in|salem|counti|he|was|a|carpent
forty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
by|trade|and|was|known|as|an|lionest|industri|and|pious|man|be|a
birthright|and|life|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|joseph|and|ann|hil
hard|becam|the|parent|of|six|children|john|a|thoma|t|the|father|of
the|subject|of|this|sketch|mari|who|die|unmarri|hannah|who|marri
joseph|e|moor|atkinson|who|die|in|childhood|and|rebecca|who|mar
rie|benjamin|griscom
thoma|t|milliard|the|second|son|of|joseph|and|ann|hilliard|is|one|of
the|vener|and|most|high|honor|citizen|of|salem|counti|where|his
entir|life|has|been|pass|he|was|born|in|mannington|township|on|the
3d|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|he|receiv|his|educ|train|in|the|puljlic
school|after|which|he|fit|himself|for|the|practic|duti|of|life|by|learn
the|trade|of|carpent|thus|follow|in|the|footstep|of|his|father|short
after|his|marriag|howev|he|turn|his|attent|to|the|manufactur
of|lime|conduct|oper|eventu|upon|an|extens|scale|and|at
tain|success|through|well|direct|effort|and|honor|deal|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy
he|retir|from|this|enterpris|have|accumul|consider|properti
he|has|sinc|devot|his|attent|to|the|manag|of|his|realest|and
other|properti|interest|and|though|advanc|in|year|retain|his|mental
and|physic|power|to|a|mark|degre|he|has|been|a|promin|and|pub
licspirit|citizen|of|salem|counti|in|whose|develop|and|materi|pros
periti|he|has|ever|maintain|a|live|interest|he|is|now|account|one|of
the|patriarch|of|the|counti|and|no|man|is|held|in|higher|esteem|than|this
repres|of|one|of|the|old|coloni|famili|of|the|nation|like|his|an
cestor|he|has|been|a|zealous|and|devot|member|of|the|societi|of|friend
on|the|5th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|was|solemn|the|marriag|of|thoma|t|hil
liard|and|miss|hannah|townsend|goodwin|and|they|becam|the|parent|of
four|children|of|whom|the|first|two|die|in|infanc|the|two|surviv|chiu
dren|are|william|t|whose|name|initi|this|review|and|jo|eph|bernard
a|brief|record|of|the|genealog|of|the|goodwin|famili|will|be|consist
at|this|junctur
the|american|progenitor|of|the|goodwin|famili|with|which|this|articl
has|to|do|was|john|goodwin|who|was|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|the|son|of|john|and
catherin|goodwin|resid|of|the|parish|of|st|buttolph|in|aldgat|lon
don|he|came|to|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, seven hundred and one|and|remov|thenc|within|the|suc
ceed|year|to|salem|counti|new|jersey|from|which|fact|it|may|be|seen
that|the|subject|of|this|review|is|identifi|with|two|of|the|oldest|famili|in
this|commonwealth|this|pioneej|resid|marri|susanna|a|daughter|of
john|smith|of|hedgefield|mannington|township|and|their|children|were
six|in|number|as|follow|john|born|februari|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and seven|mari|born|sep
tember|i|one thousand, seven hundred and ten|joseph|born|noember|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and thirteen|john|2d|born|octob
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|forty-seven
seventeen|one thousand, seven hundred and sixteen|thoma|born|june|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-one|and|william|born|august|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-three
thoma|goodwin|marri|sarah|morri|a|daughter|of|lewi|and|sarah
fetter|morri|and|he|eventu|remov|from|salem|to|elsinboro|in
the|same|counti|where|he|erect|a|breweri|upon|his|wife|s|homestead
farm|which|she|had|inherit|they|dispos|of|this|properti|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|and
subsequ|purchas|resid|properti|on|broadway|in|the|town|of
salem|where|they|maintain|their|home|until|the|death|of|mrs|goodwm
whichoccur|on|the|5th|of|octob|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-five|when|she|had|arriv|at|the|age
of|fortyon|year|mr|goodwin|subsequ|consumm|a|second|mar
riag|be|unit|to|sarah|smith|who|die|may|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|age|fftythre
year|thoma|goodwin|live|to|attain|the|vener|age|of|eightytwo|his
death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and three|he|was|a|man|of|strong|mental|and|physic|pow
er|and|was|an|influenti|citizen|of|the|counti
the|youngest|son|of|john|and|susanna|smith|goodwin|was|wdliam
goodwin|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-three|who|figur|as|the|direct|progenitor|of|the|numer
and|estim|goodwin|famili|in|salem|counti|at|the|present|day|he|marri
mari|a|daughter|of|lewi|and|sarah|fetter|morri|and|they|had|fve|chil
dren|john|susanna|lewi|william|and|mari|mr|goodwin|was|a|carpen
ter|by|trade|but|he|final|abandon|work|in|this|line|to|engag|in|farm
his|wife|die|april|three|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|their|son|john|was|born|june|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|and
marri|ann|a|daughter|of|clement|and|margaretta|morri|hall|of|elsin
boro|township|clement|hall|was|the|son|of|william|hall|jr|of|man
ton|township|and|a|grandson|of|judg|william|hall|a|distinguish|citizen
of|salem|in|bygon|day|john|goodwin|and|ann|hall|were|second|cousin
and|after|a|courtship|of|eight|year|were|final|allow|to|marri|though|con
trari|to|the|disciplin|of|the|societi|of|friend|of|which|they|were|birth
right|member|this|was|the|first|marriag|of|the|sort|ever|sanction|by
the|societi|mr|goodwin|was|uniform|respect|for|his|integr|and
pieti|he|die|about|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two
lewi|goodwin|the|second|son|of|william|and|mari|morri|goodwin
was|born|novemb|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight|and|by|his|marriag|to|rebecca|zane|he|had
two|children|john|and|susan|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|he|marri
abiail|a|daughter|of|william|and|elizabeth|carpent|this|union|bemg
consimm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|and|the|result|thereof|be|three|son|morri|wil
liam|and|thoma|after|his|second|marriag|lewi|goodwin|remov|to
ohio|where|his|wife|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|after|which|he|return|to|salem|where
he|pass|the|remaind|of|his|life|william|the|second|son|by|the|second
marriag|marri|huldah|townsend|a|daughter|of|daniel|townsend|of
cape|may|counti|new|jersey|and|their|children|were|rachel|lewi
hannah|william|and|mari|of|these|hannah|becam|the|wife|of|thoma
forty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
t|hilliard|as|has|alreadi|been|note|and|was|the|mother|of|the|subject
of|this|sketch|she|die|januari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|at|the|age|of|seventyseven|year
wilham|t|hilliard|whose|ancestr|histori|has|been|outhn|in|the
preced|paragraph|was|the|third|in|order|of|birth|of|the|four|children
of|thoma|townsend|and|hannah|h|goodwin|hilliard|he|was|born|in
elsinboro|township|salem|counti|on|the|28th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|his|more|pure
ly|literari|train|was|secur|in|the|salem|academi|and|in|the|academi
conduct|by|swithin|c|shortledg|at|kenneth|squar|chester|counti
pennsylvania|prior|to|leav|school|he|had|formul|definit|plan|for|his
futur|have|determin|to|prepar|himself|for|the|legal|profess
accord|he|enter|the|law|offic|of|hon|clement|h|sinnickson|of
salem|with|whom|he|continu|his|specif|or|technic|read|for|a|time
after|which|he|was|under|the|effect|preceptorship|of|that|emin|jurist
and|legist|judg|thoma|p|carpent|of|camden|who|was|a|justic|of
the|suprem|court|of|the|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|mr|hilliard|was|admit|to|the
bar|of|new|jersey|as|an|attorney|at|law|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|he|secur|admiss
as|a|counselor|he|forthwith|enter|upon|the|activ|practic|of|his|pro
fession|in|salem|and|he|has|been|emin|success|in|his|chosen|field
of|endeavor|retain|a|distinct|repres|clientag|and|have
been|concern|in|much|of|the|import|litig|in|this|section|of|the
state|also|appear|veri|frequent|in|the|higher|court|in|connect
with|caus|of|much|moment|his|success|as|a|practition|is|the|best
evid|of|his|abil|and|mani|of|the|more|import|case|in|which|he
has|been|interest|may|be|found|in|the|new|jersey|law|and|equiti|report
mr|hilliard|is|known|as|one|of|the|most|progress|alert|and|public
spirit|citizen|of|salem|and|his|aid|and|influenc|are|grant|to|everi
worthi|becaus|project|in|the|public|interest|he|is|identifi|with|sever
import|enterpris|of|a|local|order|among|which|it|may|be|mention
that|he|was|one|of|the|incorpor|of|the|citi|nation|bank|of|salem
which|was|found|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|of|which|he|is|the|presid|and|also|counsel
the|institut|be|veri|success|he|was|one|of|the|incorpor|of|the
salem|cemeteri|associ|which|was|organ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|for|the|purpos
of|establish|a|public|cemeteri|of|proper|charact|and|he|has|serv|as
it|treasur|through|the|effort|of|this|associ|a|beauti|cemeteri
compris|sixteen|acr|has|been|laid|out|in|appropri|design|beautifi
and|care|for|as|god|s|acr|should|be|in|everi|communiti|mr|hilliard
was|promin|concern|in|the|establish|of|the|salem|electr|light
compani|of|which|he|sene|as|treasur|for|nine|year|when|he|resign
the|offic
in|his|polit|procliv|he|is|stanchlv|array|in|the|support|of|the
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey
forty-nine
principl|and|polici|of|the|republican|parti|m|inch|he|ha|b|e|n|a|tall
time|an|activ|and|influenti|factor|he|is|a|member|of|the|garfield|club
the|lead|republican|organ|in|the|citi|in|his|rehgous|faith|he
sng|to|the|tenet|which|have|been|held|by|his|ancestor|be|a|menib
of|the|societi|of|friend|by|birthright|in|all|that|touch|the|work|o
this|nobl|religi|organ|he|take|a|deep|and|tn|jtere|he
is|a|truste|of|the|friend|school|in|salem|which|was|establish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight
and|has|been|intim|interest|in|the|educ|affair|o|the|societi
for|the|past|twentv|vear|he|has|been|look|to|with|confid|m|the
matter|of|handl|the|trust|fund|of|the|societi|and|his|abil|as|a|financi
has|conserv|the|interest|of|this|phase|of|the|societi|s|tempor|affair
he|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste|of|the|philadelphia|year|meet
of|the|societi|of|friend|the|duti|of|said|board|be|to|invest|and|pay
over|to|the|proper|committe|the|various|fund|in|their|care|amount
at|this|time|to|over|one|million|dollar|he|is|a|member|of|the|commi|tee
which|establish|and|start|and|now|has|charg|of|the|friend|board
school|at|newtown|pennsylvania|call|the|georg|school|estabhshd|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|and|has|been|activ|and|use|in|the|promot|of|this|worthi|institu
tion|which|is|one|of|the|lead|one|maintain|by|the|societi|in|the|union
he|is|a|member|and|the|chairman|of|the|financ|committe|ofth|salem
histor|societi|as|well|as|the|chairman|of|the|financ|committe|of|the
salem|librari|compani|he|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|trade|and|one
class|distinctivelv|as|one|of|the|repres|lawyer|of|the|state|and
lead|citizen|of|his|nativ|counti|a|man|ever|readi|to|lend|his|aid|to|all
good|work|in|whatev|field|r|c
the|marriag|of|mr|hilliard|was|solemn|on|the|22d|of|septemb
isvq|when|he|was|unit|to|miss|eliza|gillingham|a|daughter|of|georg
l|gillinham|an|extens|and|influenti|farmer|of|burlington|counti|new
jersey|she|presid|with|grace|digniti|over|the|attract|home|which
is|a|center|of|refin|hospit|and|which|has|been|brighten|by|the
advent|of|five|children|thoma|g|who|was|educ|in|the|friend
school|in|salem|and|the|friend|central|school|in|philadelphia|gradu
ate|in|the|latter|institut|after|which|he|read|law|in|the|offic|of|his
father|and|was|admit|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|georg|l|who
craduat|at|the|georg|school|friend|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|is|a|graduat|of|the
class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|of|the|drexel|school|in|the|depart|of|mechan|art
william|t|jr|who|is|likewis|a|graduat|of|the|georg|school|and|is|now
pursuin|a|medic|cours|in|hahnemann|medic|colleg|in|philadelphia
and|bernard|a|and|mari|e|hilliard|the|two|younger|children|who|are
now|attend|school|at|salem
fifty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
dr|william|h|carpent
dr|william|howard|carpent|a|promin|physician|of|salem|new
jersey|is|a|son|of|william|beasley|and|nanci|a|peas|carpent|and|was
born|on|februari|i6|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|in|the|township|of|elsinboro|this|counti|he
come|from|a|long|line|of|illustri|ancestor|who|have|born|a|promin
part|in|the|develop|of|this|state|and|left|him|the|heritag|of|a|good
name|which|he|bear|in|a|manner|befit|a|descend|of|joshua|and|sam
uel|carpent|he|attend|the|district|school|in|his|youth|but|earli|decid
to|enter|one|of|the|profess|and|with|this|end|in|view|laid|the|foundat
for|his|subsequ|career|by|obtain|a|substanti|educ|graduat
at|the|salem|high|school|he|enter|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|at
which|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|graduat|as|an|m|d|follow|that|he|had|two|year
hospit|practic|serv|fifteen|month|as|a|resid|physician|in|the|phila
delphia|hospit|four|month|in|st|mari|s|and|st|agn|hospit|and|four
month|in|the|outdoor|depart|of|the|pennsylvania|univers|hospit
he|came|to|salem|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|began|the|practic|of|his|profess|take|a
special|cours|in|the|polyclin|hospit|of|philadelphia|on|diseas|of|the
throat|and|nose|and|make|a|specialti|of|these|diseas|in|his|practic
close|applic|to|his|profess|has|been|reward|by|a|larg|and|lucrat
practic|and|he|is|rank|today|among|the|lead|physician|of|salem
counti
dr|carpent|was|unit|in|the|holi|bond|of|matrimoni|on|octob|sixteen
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|to|miss|jane|eliza|a|daughter|of|daniel|and|elizabeth|whitney|who
has|charg|of|the|nation|cemeteri|at|finn|s|point|this|state|they|have
one|child|william|b|jr
the|doctor|is|a|republican|for|four|year|he|serv|the|counti|as|the
physician|of|the|salem|counti|almshous|he|is|a|member|of|the|ameri
can|medic|associ|the|salem|counti|medic|associ|and|was
former|a|member|of|the|d|hay|agnew|surgic|societi|he|was|one
of|the|leader|in|athlet|sport|when|in|colleg|be|a|member|of|the|track
team|of|the|univers|for|two|year|he|was|also|a|member|of|the|boat
club|row|in|the|freshman|and|class|crew
he|is|a|member|of|excelsior|lodg|no|fifty-four|f|a|m|brearley|chap
ter|r|a|m|at|bridgeton|fenwick|lodg|no|seven|k|of|p|fenwick
lodg|i|o|o|f|and|also|the|fenwick|and|garfield|club|he|was|the
coron|of|the|counti|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|to|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|is|one|of|the|board|of|director|of
the|y|m|c|a|and|vicepresid|of|the|board|of|educ|of|which|he|has
been|a|member|for|the|past|five|year|he|is|a|member|of|the|salem|counti
congression|district|of|new|jersey|fifty-one
ciul|and|is|one|of|the|steward|in|the|broadway|methodist|episcop|church
it|is|to|such|citizen|as|dr|carpent|that|salem|look|for|her|contmu
prosper
john|v|craven
tohn|vandegrift|craven|late|retir|from|activ|busi|is|known|as
one|of|the|most|enterpris|as|well|as|most|benevol|gentlemen|of|salem
where|his|record|in|the|commerci|world|is|unsurpass|he|s|a|son|of|dayd
stewart|and|rebecca|jane|vandegrift|craven|and|was|born|jy
one thousand, eight hundred and forty|in|new|castl|counti|delawar|in|the|vicmiti|of|mcdonough|h|s
educ|was|obtain|at|professor|wyer|s|academi|at|westchest|penn
sylvania|and|delawar|colleg|newark|delawar
then|he|enter|a|drygood|store|as|a|clerk|for|a|perud|of|three|y
in|salem|new|jersey|he|then|becam|a|partner|n|the|hrm|of|hah|t|an
coast|craven|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|in|the|manufactur|of|glass|m|this|citi|he|was
the|prime|mover|in|organ|the|compani|and|assist|m|dggmg|the
foundat|for|the|build|of|the|new|enterpris|with|in|own|hand|th
bvess|was|start|on|a|moder|scale|onli|ffti|hand|beng|employ
at|le|ut|et|but|the|zeal|of|young|craven|for|the|success|of|the|undertakmg
url|him|to|continu|activ|and|it|was|larg|due|to|hus|etfort|tha
he|plant|met|with|such|flatter|success|two|year|after|bmldmgh
fir|ttctorv|the|capacitv|of|the|plant|was|doubl|in|eight hundred and seventy-six|they|budt|a
fhrd|factorv|on|salem|creek|where|fifti|peopl|were|employ|and|m
eight hundred and eighty-one|anoth|factori|was|built|bv|the|side|of|the|third|tl
enlarc|from|time|to|time|until|at|present|it|occupi|egh|acr|of|land
ind|frirnish|constant|work|to|about|four|hundr|hand|they|make|fruit
jar|and|bottl|of|all|kind|nth|liter|the
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|hall|retir|from|the|busi|and|eight|month|late|the
death|of|joseph|d|pancoast|remov|the|onli|remain|partner|and|our
sul|ect|con|nu|the|work|under|the|name|of|john|v|craven|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one
v|n|one|is|brother|thoma|becam|a|partner|and|the|firm|was|known|as|craven
bo|is|for|fourteen|to|fifteen|year|then|mr|craven|desir|to|admit
a|nlber|of|young|men|who|had|given|the|differ|epartm|goo|ca
to|an|interest|in|the|jt|js|ha|tr|mi
porat|under|the|name|of|alen|a
s|frtdxrtr|n|thesuccessf|pku
has|becom|one|of|the|solid|institut|of|southern|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|salem|transport|compani|was|organ|wit|mr|craven|as|presi
dent|and|the|compani|bnilt|the|tug|anna|and|two|barg|and|estabhsh
a|freight|line|between|philadelphia|and|salem|the|busi|was|chiefli|in
carri|the|freight|of|the|glass|work|this|line|was|continu|until|the
railroad|compani|at|the|earnest|solicit|of|air|craven|extend|their
track|down|to|the|work
john|v|craven|was|marri|novemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|to|anna|rumsey|ware
a|daughter|of|henri|b|ware|then|the|cashier|of|the|salem|nation
bank|compani|of|this|citi|they|have|three|children|mabel|archer
frank|richard|and|john|v|jr|in|polit|mr|craven|is|an|independ
democrat|and|exhibit|a|high|degre|of|intellig|in|form|his|opinion
on|nation|affair|as|in|busi|matter|he|repres|the|west|ward
in|the|citi|council|four|year|was|a|member|of|the|board|of|trade|and
is|a|member|of|the|present|board|of|educ|he|take|an|activ|interest
in|ani|subject|relat|to|the|welfar|of|the|citi|and|has|made|for|himself
an|enviabl|reput|for|his|busi|sagac|and|good|judgment|he
has|accumul|a|consider|properti|and|take|the|best|way|of|enjoy
it|by|help|those|who|are|tri|honest|to|get|a|start|in|life|and|have|no
mean|to|aid|them|mani|young|person|have|receiv|from|this|worthi
gentleman|time|and|unostentati|assist|which|has|start|them|on
the|road|to|success|where|they|could|never|have|hope|to|travel|by|their|own
unaid|effort|and|their|gratitud|is|a|live|monument|to|his|benevol
deed
s|h|stanger
hon|s|h|stanger|state|senat|from|gloucest|counti|and|a|lead
merchant|of|glassboro|new|jersey|was|born|near|this|villag|march|twenty-two
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|his|father|solomon|h|stanger|was|also|a|nativ|of|this|vicin|and
was|a|son|of|jacob|stanger|who|was|one|of|seven|brother|jacob|solo
mon|john|christian|adam|franci|and|philip|these|with|one|sister
sophia|came|from|holland|to|this|countri|and|work|at|the|wistar|glass
work|in|alloway|creek|township|salem|count|they|settl|in|glassboro
in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|and|built|the|glass|work|here
solomon|h|stanger|learn|the|glassblow|s|trade|at|which|he|work
and|also|engag|in|farm|he|was|one|of|the|foremost|farmer|of|his
time|and|made|great|progress|in|agricultur|affair|he|was|a|promin
member|of|the|protest|methodist|church|and|held|all|of|it|offic|at
differ|time|he|was|also|promin|in|the|independ|order|of|odd
fellow|take|an|activ|part|in|their|meet|he|was|public|spirit|to
congression|district|of|new|jersey|fifty-three
a|dere|lose|no|opportun|to|advanc|the|welfar|of|the|communiti
he|marri|a|ladv|whose|maiden|name|was|hannah|simmerman|a|daughter
of|john|simmerman|she|pass|to|her|reward|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|he|on|apnl|six
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|leav|a|familv|of|four|children|to|mourn|their|death
to|obtain|an|educ|our|subject|attend|the|public|school|of|his
nativ|place|until|he|was|twentyon|when|he|left|school|and|began|fann
ino|the|first|two|vear|he|work|for|his|father|and|then|purchas|the
farm|this|vocat|was|continu|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when|he|rent|a|buildmg
and|open|a|store|in|this|villag|the|follow|year|he|move|into|a
larger|build|the|famous|old|temper|hous|now|occupi|by|hun
where|he|has|one|of|the|largest|and|most|complet|stock|of|good|to|be
found|in|this|part|of|the|countri|at|one|time|he|was|connect|with|the
grane|act|as|it|agent|and|he|still|retain|all|his|oldtim|interest|in|the
farm|element|he|is|a|remark|shrewd|busi|man|but|thorough
honest|and|upright|in|all|his|deal|and|his|conduct|is|beyond|question
he|was|marriedin|isco|to|lis|s|lydia|b|shute|a|daughter|of|isaac|shute
and|their|onli|children|are|two|son|c|fleme|and|frank|r|both|of
whom|are|abl|assist|of|their|father|in|the|store
mr|stanger|is|a|stanch|republican|and|has|been|chosen|by|his|friend|to
fill|sever|ofc|of|various|import|he|was|elect|freehold|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five
and|held|that|place|continu|for|ten|year|serdng|at|the|same|time|as
the|treasur|of|the|almshous|conmiitte|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|was|elect|to|the
assemblv|and|was|an|incumb|of|that|ofific|four|year|one|year|longer
than|an|v|previous|member|from|that|counti|had|held|it|and|it|was|sore
aoainst|his|will|that|he|was|nomin|the|last|time|but|his|fnend|insist
and|he|was|oblig|to|vield|to|their|wish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|elect|to|the
state|senat|and|here|he|has|done|all|in|his|power|for|the|general|good
and|has|upheld|the|high|standard|his|constitu|place|for|him|he|has
ever|been|a|friend|of|the|labor|man|and|has|striven|to|lighten|their|load
whenev|practic|dure|the|session|of|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and eighty-nine|he|introduc|and
work|for|the|passag|of|an|act|compel|the|payment|of|wage|at|least
onc|in|two|week|he|succeel|in|get|this|bill|through|the|senat
but|it|was|kill|in|the|hous|this|bill|was|intend|to|compel|the|glass
compani|to|pay|their|employ|cash|and|not|forc|them|to|patron|the
compani|store|as|had|been|done|befor|mr|stanger|was|in|no|sens|a
politician|as|he|never|made|promis|of|what|he|would|do|and|was|not|a
wire|puller|or|schemer|for|offic|his|record|has|been|pure|and|clean|and
will|readilv|admit|the|searchlight|of|truth|to|be|turn|on|at|everi|point
he|is|a|director|of|the|glassboro|build|loan|associ|and|take
pride|in|the|institut|of|the|town
fifty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
he|is|connect|with|xarion|fratern|societi|and|rank|liigh|in|them
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|was|made|an|odd|fellow|and|has|pass|all|the|chair|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five
he|was|elect|secretari|of|the|glassboro|lodg|no|fifty-eight|and|is|still|an|in
cumbent|he|is|a|member|of|fratern|encamp|xo|twenty-three|i|o|o|f
of|woodburi|and|was|made|a|mason|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|in|glassboro|lodg|no|fifty-five
and|in|that|also|he|has|pass|all|the|chair|he|later|join|trenton|chap
ter|gebal|council|and|palestin|commanderi|no|four|trenton|he|is|a
thirtyseconddegre|mason|belong|to|the|consistori|at|camden|and|is
also|a|shriner|belong|to|lulu|templ|of|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|l|join
pocahonta|council|xo|forty-eight|of|the|junior|order|of|american|mechan
he|is|promin|in|church|work|as|a|member|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|and|has|been|a|truste|and|steward|for|year|his|popular|is
shown|by|the|larg|major|receiv|b|him|when|a|candid|for|elect
to|public|offic
thoma|v|trenchard
the|name|of|trenchard|has|figur|conspicu|in|connect|with
public|affair|of|new|jersey|for|sever|generat|and|he|of|whom|we
write|has|ad|new|luster|to|the|famili|record|by|his|honor|career|he
was|born|in|centerton|salem|counti|xew|jersey|decemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and
now|resid|in|bridgeton|cumberland|counti|he|is|a|lineal|descend
of|georg|trenchard|who|came|from|east|jersey|and|settl|in|salem|counti
in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty|his|patern|greatgrandfath|john|trenchard|resid|in|fair
field|township|cumberland|counti|where|for|a|number|of|year|he|success
fulli|engag|in|the|oper|of|a|gristmil|in|vessel|build|and|ship
of|lumber|acquir|therebi|a|handsom|compet|he|was|a|public
spirit|man|and|a|recogn|leader|in|the|communiti|and|at|one|time|a
member|of|the|legisl|council|of|new|jersey
twice|marri|one|of|his|children|jame|howel|trenchard|was|born
in|fairfield|township|cumberland|counti|on|may|twenty|one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|becam
one|of|the|earli|civil|engin|and|land|surveyor|of|this|section|of|the
state|he|attend|school|at|easton|pennsylvania|under|rev|dr|georg
junkin|dure|his|earli|manhood|he|resid|in|centerton|salem|counti
but|afterward|took|up|his|abod|at|bridgeton|he|was|activ|connect
with|various|busi|enterpris|and|in|connect|with|his|work|as|civil
engin|conduct|a|mercantil|establish|and|also|own|and|oper
saw|and|grist|mill|he|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|whig|parti|until
it|dissolut|when|he|join|the|rank|of|the|new|republican|parti|and
was|one|of|it|stalwart|support|until|his|death|he|serv|as|a|member
congressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|fifty-five
of|the|citv|council|of|the|citi|of|bridgeton|and|also|repres|salem
counti|inth|state|legislatur|bemg|elect|to|that|bodi|in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight
on|the|whig|ticket|his|sound|judgment|and|patriot|spirit|made|him|par
ticular|popular|and|effici|in|public|offic|and|his|effort|in|behalf|of
the|general|welfar|were|veri|effect|he|marri|miss|mari|barrett|a
daughter|of|william|barrett|at|one|time|a|merchant|of|fairton|new|jersey
she|is|still|live|at|the|advanc|age|of|nineti|year|but|mr|trenchard
has|pass|away|have|die|after|a|brief|ill|februari|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|one|their
familv|were|seven|children|richard|the|eldest|born|decemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight
was|ihre|time|marri|his|first|union|be|ith|emili|hitak|by
whom|he|had|three|childrenelizabeth|mari|and|herbert|his|second
wife|was|mari|hitchner|bv|whom|he|had|two|children|joseph|and|delia
for|his|third|wife|he|chose|eva|brees|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|he|en
gage|in|manufactur|in|bridgeton|william|b|was|the|second|of|the
famili|jame|w|born|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|vas|twice|marri|and|by|the
first|union|with|miss|gertrud|bond|had|one|son|frank|for|his|second
wife|he|chose|amanda|powel|he|was|one|of|the|organ|and|is|at
present|the|cashier|of|the|bridgeton|nation|bank|eleanor|bom|septem
ber|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|is|the|wife|of|jame|t|william|a|tinwar|manufactur|of
philadelphia|and|they|have|had|three|children|alic|p|joseph|h|and
tame|t|jeannetta|born|novemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|is|the|wife|of|charl|are
elmer|of|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|they|have|two|children|thoma|w
was|born|august|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|die|june|seven|i860|araminta|born|februari
ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|die|februari|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven
william|b|trenchard|the|father|of|our|subject|has|for|more|than|a
quarter|of|a|centuri|been|a|resid|of|bridgeton|and|has|figur|conspicu
ousli|in|connect|with|pul|lic|affair|his|birth|occur|m|centerton
salem|counti|octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|after|attain|his|major|he|remov
to|fairton|where|he|engag|in|general|merchandis|about|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he
came|to|bridgeton|where|he|join|his|father|in|the|survey|busi
under|the|firm|name|of|jame|h|william|b|trenchard|upon|his|father|s
death|he|continu|the|busi|alon|and|was|activ|connect|with|the
profess|until|elect|counti|clerk|of|cumberland|counti|for|mani
year|he|serv|as|citi|surveyor|resign|on|his|elect|to|the|clerkship
he|was|also|a|justic|of|the|peac|for|sever|term|and|repres|the
fourth|ward|of|bridgeton|on|the|board|of|chosen|freehold|of|cumber
land|counti|where|he|was|soon|recogn|as|a|leader|in|the|conduct|o|the
affair|of|the|counti|that|offic|he|also|resign|nn|hen|elect|counti|clerk
as|a|surveyor|he|did|much|work|in|cumberland|salem|gloucest|camden
cape|may|and|atlant|counti|he|survey|the|great|tract|of|atlant
fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
counti|known|as|the|walker|tract|and|also|the|big|section|of|countri
where|carmel|is|now|locat|in|addit|to|his|wide|knowledg|of|the
countri|accuir|in|this|way|and|the|fund|of|inform|which|he|has|gain
through|person|experi|and|which|can|not|be|acquir|from|book|or
record|he|came|into|possess|upon|his|father|s|death|of|some|veri|valu
abl|paper|map|and|other|write|which|can|not|be|secur|in|ani|other
place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|was|elect|counti|clerk|of|cumberland|counti|for|a|term
of|five|year|and|on|the|expir|of|that|period|was|again|chosen|to|the
offic|at|the|first|elect|he|receiv|a|plural|of|three|hundr|and
fiftynin|vote|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|his|plural|over|the|democrat|candid|was
twentyseven|hundr|and|nine|a|fact|which|indic|how|well|he|had
discharg|his|duti|dure|the|first|term|thus|win|the|confid|and
support|of|the|public|he|is|a|man|of|sterl|worth|veri|earnest|and|con
scientious|in|the|discharg|of|his|duti|and|dure|his|long|connect|with
cumberland|counti|he|has|won|the|respect|of|his|fellow|men|in|all|the|rela
tion|of|hfe
thoma|wdiitak|trenchard|whose|name|introduc|this|review|was
born|in|centerton|salem|counti|on|the|13th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|at|the
usual|age|enter|the|public|school|in|which|he|was|graduat|when|fifteen
year|of|age|he|then|enter|the|south|jersey|institut|and|was|graduat
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|thus|well|equip|for|the|practic|and|respons|duti|of|life
and|with|a|broad|general|knowledg|to|serv|as|a|foundat|upon|which
to|rear|the|superstructur|of|profession|wisdom|he|began|read|law|in
the|ofiic|of|potter|nixon|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|was|admit|to|the
bar|at|the|novemb|term|of|the|suprem|court|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|be|licens|a
counselor|of|law|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|in|the|former|year|he|locat|in|bridgeton|where
he|open|an|ofific|sinc|which|time|he|has|steadili|ad|to|his|reput
as|an|abl|repres|of|the|legal|profess|his|knowledg|of|the|law
is|comprehens|and|thorough|and|his|applic|of|it|principl|to|the
point|in|litig|is|veri|accur|so|that|he|is|fulli|compet|to|discharg
the|duti|of|judg|of|cumberland|counti|to|which|posit|he|was|ap
point|by|governor|vorhe|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|on|the|bench|he|has|ad
to|the|high|reput|he|had|previous|won|and|although|he|is|the|young
est|law|judg|in|the|state|his|prestig|is|credit|and|enviabl|he|serv
as|citi|solicitor|of|bridgeton|and|has|held|other|offic|have|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|been
the|nomine|of|the|republican|parti|for|assemblyman|he|was|elect|to
repres|the|first|district|by|a|plural|of|six|hundr|and|three|vote|and
was|the|youngest|member|of|the|hous|be|at|that|time|onli|twentyfour
year|of|age|the|follow|year|he|declin|to|be|a|candid|for|renomi
nation|prefer|to|devot|his|attent|entir|to|his|law|practic|the
m
congression|district|of|new|jersey|fifty-seven
posit|of|citv|solicitor|howev|be|in|the|direct|hne|of|his|profession
duti|he|accept|the|offic|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|and|continu|thereni
until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|when|he|was|elev|to|the|bench|he|was|one|of|the|organ
izer|of|the|cumberland|counti|bar|associ|of|which|he|is|now|servmg
as|the|presid|and|is|one|of|the|charter|member|of|the|state|bar|associa
tion
in|polit|judg|trenchard|has|alway|been|a|stalwart|republican|and
for|four|year|he|sere|as|a|member|of|the|state|central|committe|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|chosen|one|of|the|presidenti|elector|and|repres|his|con
stituent|by|cast|his|ballot|for|mckinley|and|hobart|he|was|also|a
sohcitor|of|the|board|of|health|of|bridgeton|for|sever|year|and|is|a|mem
ber|of|the|societi|of|the|son|of|the|revolut
in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|mr|trenchard|was|marri|to|miss|harriet|a|man
ning|a|daughter|of|rev|dr|joseph|k|man|of|trenton|new|jersey
who|for|mani|year|was|a|baptist|clergyman|of|that|place|the|judg|and
his|wife|have|a|wide|acquaint|in|the|southern|section|of|the|state|and
enjoy|the|warm|regard|of|their|mani|friend|to|whom|they|extend|a|gracious
hospit|in|their|pleasant|home
owen|l|jone
to|this|gentleman|is|due|that|tribut|of|respect|and|admir|which|is
alway|given|and|justlv|so|to|those|men|who|have|work|their|way
upward|to|posit|of|promin|through|their|own|effort|who|have
achiev|wealth|through|their|own|labor|and|by|their|honor|straightfor
ward|deal|command|the|esteem|and|confid|of|those|with|whom
they|have|been|thrown|in|contact|success|and|promin|in|almost|ani
calhng|lie|along|the|line|of|patient|persev|and|faith|work|this|mr
jone|realiz|and|resolv|that|if|earnest|labor|could|secur|success|it
should|be|his|his|career|has|therefor|been|character|by|this|factor|of
prosper|and|supplement|this|were|his|keen|percept|sound|judg
ment|and|natur|abil|there|are|no|other|qualiti|absolut|essenti
to|advanc|and|upon|the|ladder|of|his|own|build|has|he|climb|to
emin|and|affluenc|in|commerci|circl
owen|l|jone|was|born|at|bricksboro|near|port|elizabeth|in|cum
berland|countv|new|jersey|his|parent|be|owen|and|elizabeth|lore
jone|his|patern|grandfath|jonathan|jone|remov|from|burl
ton|counti|this|stateo|port|elizabeth|where|he|carri|on|agricultur
pursuit|throughout|the|remaind|of|his|life|he|was|a|member|of|the
fifty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
hicksit|divis|of|the|societi|of|friend|belong|to|the|iauric|river
month|meet|and|occasion|preach|for|the|denomin|he
marri|miss|mari|owen|and|to|them|were|born|four|children|a|daugh
ter|sarah|becam|the|wife|of|isaac|baner|and|they|remov|to|ohio
wdier|both|die|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|die|when|about|eighti
two|year|of|age|and|his|wife|pass|away|at|the|age|of|nineti|a|nativ|of
burlington|counti|new|jersey|owen|jone|the|father|of|our|subject|was
rear|to|the|occup|of|farm|and|follow|that|pursuit|in|connect
with|the|butcher|busi|in|bricksboro|where|he|spent|the|greater|part
of|his|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|howev|he|remov|to|salem|and|retir|from|busi
there|live|in|the|enjoy|of|the|fruit|of|his|former|toil|until|call
to|his|final|rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|in|polit|he|was|first|a|vhig|and|on|the|dis
solut|of|that|parti|he|join|the|rank|of|the|new|republican|parti|with
which|he|ever|afterward|affili|he|held|various|township|ofific|includ
ing|that|of|freehold|and|was|quit|promin|in|local|affair|in|religi
belief|he|was|connect|with|the|societi|of|friend|the|three|children
of|the|famili|are|sarah|the|wife|of|clement|acton|a|lumber|and|hardwar
merchant|of|salem|owen|l|and|elizabeth|wife|of|thoma|b|wood
who|former|engag|in|deal|in|lime|and|grain|in|cumberland|counti
new|jersey|but|is|now|deceas
owen|l|jone|whose|name|initi|this|review|was|educ|in|privat
school|and|in|the|academi|at|port|elizabeth|then|one|of|the|lead
educ|institut|of|that|day|he|also|spent|one|term|in|a|privat|school
in|philadelphia|pennsylvania|he|continu|with|his|father|until|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three
when|he|came|to|salem|and|enter|upon|an|independ|busi|career
he|enter|the|employ|of|the|firm|of|acton|cattel|dealer|in|lumber|and
hardwar|and|thus|familiar|himself|with|busi|plan|and|method|gain
ing|a|practic|knowledg|of|commerci|procedur|for|six|year|he|re
main|with|that|firm|and|then|join|clement|acton|in|the|continu|of
the|lumber|busi|under|the|firm|name|of|acton|jone|that|relationship
continu|for|two|year|when|mr|acton|withdrew|on|account|of|i|will|health
and|was|succeed|by|richard|woodnut|under|the|firm|name|of|jone
woodnut|for|fifteen|year|they|carri|on|a|larg|and|profit|busi
at|the|expir|of|which|time|mr|jone|becam|connect|with|the
extens|enterpris|which|now|claim|his|attent|he|form|a|part
nership|with|jame|k|patterson|under|the|firm|name|of|patterson
jone|for|the|purpos|of|engag|in|the|canning|busi|in|salem|at
that|time|locat|on|church|street|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|the|senior|partner|sold|his
interest|to|jame|ayer|and|the|firm|of|jone|ayer|has|sinc|carri|on
the|busi|up|to|the|present|time|their|factori|was|erect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|at
congression|district|of|new|jersey|fifty-nine
their|present|site|for|the|purpos|of|secur|conveni|and|better|shippnig
facihti|and|is|now|one|of|the|largest|in|the|state|furnish|employ
to|two|hundr|and|fifti|person|the|plant|cover|an|acr|of|ground
an|improv|has|been|ad|to|the|rear|of|the|build|and|the|latest
and|best|improv|machineri|and|apparatus|have|been|put|in|so|that|then
facil|for|carri|on|the|busi|in|the|most|approv|way|are|veri
complet|they|can|tomato|and|their|brand|is|wide|celebr|for|it
superior|tliey|manufactur|their|own|can|and|in|that|depart|of
the|work|employ|a|larg|forc|of|men|throughout|the|year|their|ship
ping|depart|is|situat|upon|their|own|privat|wharf|on|the|salem
creek|throughout|mr|jone|connect|with|the|busi|it|has|con
stant|increas|both|in|volum|and|in|import|until|at|the|present
time|they|are|turn|out|a|million|can|a|year|and|it|good|are|now
ship|throughout|a|wide|territori|they|also|connnand|the|best|market
price|and|the|hous|sustain|a|most|enviabl|reput|for|reliabilti|in
all|trade|transact|mr|jone|is|also|the|owner|of|a|fine|farm|of|one
hundr|and|thirtyf|acr|on|lower|penn|s|neck
while|promin|in|busi|circl|he|has|gain|equal|promin|in
polit|life|and|has|been|an|import|factor|in|the|public|life|of|salem
in|his|polit|view|he|is|a|stanch|republican|well|inform|on|the|issu
of|the|day|and|unswerv|in|his|allegi|to|the|measur|of|the|parti
for|sixteen|year|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|citi|council|of|salem|and|in
that|capac|has|labor|earnest|and|effect|for|the|progress|and
improv|of|the|citi|the|becaus|of|educ|found|in|him|a|valu|friend
dure|his|six|year|servic|on|the|school|board|and|he|was|a|member|of|the
most|import|legislatur|that|ever|conven|in|new|jersey|the|assembl
of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|which|pass|all|the|war|measur|of|the|state|dure|that|period
he|was|also|subsequ|elect|the|sheriff|of|salem|counti|serv|in
the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|his|offici|record|is|without|a|blot|have
ever|been|character|by|loyal|and|progress|servic|in|behalf|of|the
general|good|he|belong|to|that|class|of|repres|american|citizen
who|while|advanc|individu|prosper|conserv|also|the|public|good
and|his|own|name|is|deepli|and|honor|engrav|on|the|commerci
historv|of|salem
h|l|sabsovich
among|the|institut|which|have|contribut|to|the|substanti|de
velop|and|materi|progress|of|southern|new|jersey|none|is|more
worthi|of|complimentari|and|favor|mention|than|the|baron|de|hirsch
6o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
agricultur|antl|industri|school|of|which|professor|sabsovich|is|the
superintend|the|time|has|long|sinc|pass|when|educ|was|thought
to|be|mere|a|prepar|necessari|for|the|socal|learn|profess
as|a|class|the|farmer|are|equal|in|intellig|to|almost|ani|other|class|of
busi|men|while|the|advanc|they|are|make|in|this|direct|is
most|remark|no|longer|doe|the|agriculturist|put|his|seed|in|the
ground|and|content|himself|with|wait|till|the|time|of|harvest|he|can|tell
you|the|qualiti|necessari|in|the|soil|to|produc|certain|crop|and|the
knowledg|how|to|obtain|the|need|qualiti|is|becom|wide|dissem
inat|he|can|tell|you|what|is|demand|in|order|to|secur|good|return
from|the|garden|the|orchard|and|the|dairi|and|he|know|how|to|care|for
field|meadow|fruit|and|stock|the|work|which|professor|sabsovich|is
conduct|in|connect|with|the|agricultur|and|industri|school|at
woodbin|is|a|most|human|one|he|is|instruct|young|men|of|jewish
birth|and|parentag|to|becom|practic|progress|farmer|to|understand
the|scientif|principl|under|their|work|and|at|the|same|time|how|to
conduct|their|labor|so|as|to|bring|the|merit|financi|reward|who|can
measur|the|influenc|of|such|a|work|it|effect|is|incalcul|by|an
known|standard|but|all|recogn|it|benefit
professor|sabsovich|was|born|februari|twenty-five|i860|in|berdiansk|in|the
crimea|and|was|educ|in|the|univers|of|odessa|and|in|the|zurich
polytechn|colleg|be|graduat|in|the|latter|institut|with|the|class
of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|subsequ|establish|a|chemic|laboratori|in|the|univ
siti|of|odessa|and|was|assist|agricultur|chemist|in|that|institut
subsequ|he|becam|the|superintend|of|a|larg|farm|in|the|northern
part|of|the|caucasus|where|he|prove|the|practic|of|his|scientif
theori|and|knowledg|continu|in|charg|there|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|when|he
cross|the|atlant|to|new|york|citi|there|he|spent|a|short|time|give
privat|instruct|in|chemistri|after|which|he|accept|the|posit|of
chemist|in|the|experiment|station|of|the|colorado|state|colleg|where
he|remain|for|two|year
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|professor|sabsovich|was|elect|the|superintend|of|the|oo|l
bine|land|and|improv|compani|at|woodbin|new|jersey|and|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|was|elect|a|director|of|the|baron|de|hirsch|agricultur|and|indus
trial|school|which|dual|posit|he|has|sinc|accept|and|capabl|fill
few|men|throughout|the|entir|countrv|are|better|inform|on|the|subject
which|he|make|his|specialti|or|have|done|as|much|to|promot|agricultur
interest|he|is|the|vice|presid|for|cape|may|counti|of|the|state|forest
er|associ|is|the|secretari|of|the|cape|may|counti|agricultur|so
cietv|a|member|of|the|american|pomolosf|societv|and|the|state|aoricul
congressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|6i
tural|societv|he|also|belong|to|the|board|of|educ|in|denni|town
xp|cape|mav|counti|and|is|deepli|interest|in|evettlnng|that|end|to
dis|enrin|use|knowledg|among|men|polit|he|nne
the|democrat|partv|and|social|with|the|ancient|order|of|urn|ed|ork
en|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|woodbin|brotherhood|and|the|wood
bine|svnagogu|his|home|relat|are|veri|pleasant|he|was|happili
marri|piil|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|to|e|catherin|grushko|of|odessa|russia|and
re|um|n|has|been|bless|with|four|children|mari|dora|helen|and
professor|sabsovich|is|a|veri|progress|enterpris|man|and|popular
with|all|class|he|is|account|one|of|the|lead|citizen|of|cape|ma
countv|where|his|strong|intellectu|and|broad|human|sympathi|have
prompt|him|to|the|execut|of|a|work|whose|benefit|are|manifold|his
s|nice|m|connect|with|the|school|at|woodbin|deserv|extend|mem
tion|for|the|success|of|the|institut|is|undoubt|due|to|him|a|jewish
colonv|has|been|form|at|that|place|which|is|now|a|thrive|town|of|four
teen|hundr|inhabit|it|was|found|by|the|truste|of|the|baron|de
hirsch|fund|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|and|the|inhabit|are|employ|either|m|the|four
factori|of|the|town|or|upon|their|farm|there|is|now|a|cloth|facto
emplov|one|hundr|and|eighti|oper|at|an|earn|capac|of|a
d|r|r|and|twentytwo|cent|per|day|and|annual|fiftyf|thousand|do|lar
dispens|through|the|medium|of|the|payrol|there|are|two|machin
shoprfurmsh|employ|to|one|hundr|and|twenti|men|with|an
eirnmo|capac|of|a|dollar|and|thirtyseven|cent|a|day|pay|out|annual
one|n|fi|thoulnd|dohar|there|is|a|basket|factori|in|which|the|employ
e|one|on|an|averag|one|dollar|per|day|and|a|brickyard|there|are|no
he|hundr|and|fifteen|children|in|school|there|are|two|pub|icschool
du|gs|a|kindergarten|with|forti|pupus|an|even|school|with|twenti
pupi|an|agricultur|school|of|one|hundr|pupd|and|a|religion
school|seventeen|instructor|are|enploy|in|the|town|and|the|becaus|of|edu
cation|is|one|held|in|high|esteem|in|this|thrive|littl|commumti|the
ooz|ompns|sixtyl|farmhous|and|one|hundr|and|htti|town
hous|erect|at|a|cost|of|from|five|to|fifteen|hundr|dollar|each|the
tew|sh|synagogu|was|erect|at|a|cost|of|seven|thousand|dollar|and|is
i|rt|hecolri|style|of|architectur|there|are|a|bnck|pub|he|bath
lous|a|hotel|and|other|good|public|build|and|the|and|own|by|the
ettlement|compris|fiftythre|hundr|acr|of|which|fifteen|hundr|acr
s|under|cultiv|the|farmer|engag|in|the|cultiv|of|fruit|veg
tabl|and|cereal|make|a|specialti|of|corn|fodder|the|latter|be|press
in|a|silo|tliey|also|rais|larg|quantiti|of|pea|and|crimson|clover|the
sixty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
oodbin|improv|compani|expend|eleven|hundr|dollar|a|month
in|salari|to|it|employ|and|nine|hundr|dollar|month|to|pupil|for
food|and|cloth|in|the|last|two|year|thirti|thousand|dollar|has|been
expend|annual|for|build|the|tax|realiz|on|the|land|in|it|unim
prove|state|was|seventytwo|dollar|and|now|the|sum|of|eighteen|hundr
dollar|is|paid|not|includ|the|industri|w|hich|are|not|tax|the|wood
bine|improv|compani|has|invest|altogeth|about|three|hundr
and|fifta|thousand|dollar|at|oodbin|and|in|addit|to|this|privat|in
vestment|have|been|made|in|town|properti|to|the|valu|of|one|hundr
and|twentyf|thousand|dollar|and|in|farm|properti|forti|thousand|dol
lar|in|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and seventy-eight|sixt|hous|were|built|and|these|are|sold|on|the|instal
plan|at|reason|rate|in|the|former|year|fifteen|thousand|dollar|was
expend|for|school|improv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|twenrvthre|thousand|more
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|twent|six|thousand|dollar|addit|an|agricultur|school
build|is|now|be|erect|at|a|cost|of|twentythre|thousand|dollar|and
will|accommod|tvo|hundr|and|fifti|pupil|while|cottag|for|the|teach
er|are|be|erect|at|a|cost|of|thirti|five|hundr|dollar|other|i|am
provement|be|made|are|a|laundn|and|greenhous|cost|two|thousand
and|fifteen|hundr|dollar|respect
histori|of|the|school
the|work|which|is|be|done|in|the|school|under|the|abl|direct
of|professor|sabsovich|is|most|valuabl|to|the|communiti|in|the|winter|of
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|a|few|of|the|brightest|boy|of|the|neighborhood|the|son|of|the|wood
bine|farmer|were|engag|in|clear|and|improanng|the|land|of|the|present
schoolfarm|xo|sixty|and|privat|lesson|in|english|arithmet|and|other
general|subject|were|given|them|for|the|benefit|of|these|boy|and|their
parent|a|seri|of|lectur|on|practic|agriculttir|subject|accompani
by|stereopticon|view|s|were|given|onc|a|week|dure|the|winter|month|the
result|of|these|lectur|was|so|encourag|that|it|was|decid|to|build|a
larg|bam|on|the|farm|and|use|the|upper|floor|as|a|lectur|room|dure
the|erect|of|the|build|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|it|was|deem|advis|to
chang|it|to|it|present|shape|the|space|for|the|stabl|was|reser|ed|for|a
woodwork|shop|and|the|remaind|of|the|first|floor|convert|into|a|tool
room|offic|and|she|would|the|upper|floor|was|divid|into|a|storag|room|and
a|lectur|room|each|twentaf|by|thirti|feet|later|two|greenhous|a
root|cellar|a|bam|for|six|head|of|cattl|and|some|poultr|hous|were|built
with|the|except|of|the|main|build|all|the|other|w|ere|erect|with|the
aid|of|pupil|the|improv|on|the|farm|includ|the|plant|of
tree|and|of|standard|crop|were|also|made|by|them|from|the|begin
congression|district|of|new|jersey|sixty-three
continu|improv|has|been|made|in|the|cours|of|studi|and|the|work
carri|on|the|student|are|instruct|in|the|english|languag|arithmet
draw|histori|geographi|physic|chemistri|botani|bookkeep|and
correspond|geometr|draw|land|measur|zoolog|and|ento
molog|meteorolog|and|anatomi|and|physiolog|all|these|gave|them
an|understand|of|the|under|principl|of|the|practic|work|which
is|done|on|the|farm|and|in|addit|instruct|is|given|concern|soil
and|crop|manur|and|fertil|feed|the|select|and|care|of|domest
anim|horticultur|floricultur|landscap|garden|market|garden
dairj|and|farm|implement|and|machineri|and|the|relat|of|forestri|to
agricultur|all|this|is|accompani|by|practic|instruct|in|field|meadow
garden|and|orchard|togeth|with|work|in|the|shop|so|that|a|knowledg
of|mechan|so|necessari|to|the|farmer|in|the|care|and|repair|of|machineri
may|be|acquir|the|girl|in|the|school|larg|studi|the|same|cours|save
that|some|of|the|instruct|pertain|more|to|man|s|outdoor|work|is
omit|and|that|pertain|to|the|work|of|the|household|is|substitut|in
clude|instruct|in|the|chemistri|of|food|and|cookeri|hygien|and|nur
ing|and|household|econom|and|household|sanit|mani|of|the|prod
uct|and|product|of|the|farm|prepar|or|rais|by|the|pupil|of|the
school|have|won|prize|at|the|cape|may|counti|fair|and|no|other|agenc
has|done|so|much|to|promot|the|interest|of|the|farmer|in|this|section|of|the
state|as|the|baron|de|hirsch|agricultur|and|industri|school|it|super
intend|is|a|man|of|broad|general|as|well|as|scientif|knowledg|and
under|his|intellectu|achiev|is|a|genuin|and|deeproot|sym
pathi|for|his|fellow|men|and|a|kind|spirit|that|prompt|him|to|put|forth
strong|effort|to|promot|the|welfar|of|the|race|and|to|introduc|such|mea
ure|and|improv|as|will|contribut|to|their|general|happi|and
prosper
william|j|thompson
perhap|no|citizen|of|new|jersey|is|more|wide|known|than|this|gentl
man|who|in|the|affair|of|life|has|won|a|remark|success|and|is|now
number|among|the|millionair|of|his|adopt|state|his|prosper|has
come|to|him|as|the|reward|of|care|manag|and|sound|judgment|that
is|rare|if|ever|at|fault|of|unab|energi|and|honor|busi|meth
od|he|is|today|one|of|the|extens|landown|of|camden|counti|and
is|connect|with|mani|of|the|most|import|busi|interest|of|this|sec
tion|of|the|state|it|is|said|that|the|man|who|each|night|pay|over|his
counter|hundr|of|employ|doe|more|for|his|countri|than|the|com
sixty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
mander|who|lead|a|regiment|forth|to|battl|for|the|former|furnish|the
mean|of|life|to|hundr|of|famili|and|promot|the|general|prosper|and
welfar|of|the|communiti|in|which|his|enterpris|are|center
ireland|has|furnish|to|america|mani|of|her|veri|success|men|and
w|j|thompson|is|one|of|the|nativ|son|of|the|emerald|isl|his|birth|hav
ing|occur|in|counti|derr|octob|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|his|father|was|patrick
thompson|also|a|nativ|of|counti|derri|where|fourteen|generat|of|the
famili|were|born|in|the|same|hous|the|grandfath|dominick|thompson
was|a|promin|citizen|of|that|communiti|and|a|wellknown|contractor|he
took|part|in|the|irish|rebellion|of|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|on|account|of|his|activ|in
the|hostil|was|forc|to|flee|to|the|unit|state|where|he|becam|one
of|the|contractor|who|construct|the|market|street|bridg|in|philadelphia
his|brother|william|and|john|serv|in|the|coloni|armi|in|the|war|of
american|independ|for|mani|generat|the|famili|own|a|larg
tract|of|land|which|was|purchas|of|captain|murri|one|of|cromwel|s|offi
cer|who|had|receiv|it|from|the|great|common|patrick|thompson
the|father|of|our|subject|was|also|a|promin|man|in|his|day|and|generat
and|for|some|time|serv|as|a|tax|collector|in|the|town|in|which|he|live
he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|his|wife|who|bore|the|maiden|name|of|bridget|mallon
pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
w|j|thompson|of|this|review|was|onli|thirteen|year|of|age|at|the
time|of|his|emigr|to|america|he|land|in|new|york|and|thenc
proceed|to|boston|where|he|was|employ|in|a|store|for|a|short|time|he
then|enter|a|sodabottl|establish|and|befor|leav|that|place|a
few|month|later|he|was|given|charg|of|the|work|after|a|year|spent|in
new|york|he|came|to|philadelphia|and|had|charg|of|the|billiard|tabl|in
the|continent|hotel|and|later|was|made|the|manag|of|the|billiard|room
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|enter|the|employ|of|captain|frank|t|osborn|a|well|known
restaur|proprietor|who|soon|place|him|in|charg|of|the|busi|where
he|remain|for|two|year|he|next|becam|a|barkeep|in|the|american
hous|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|open|a|hotel|on|chestnut|street|which|becam|famous
as|the|hole|in|the|day|and|was|a|great|resort|for|politician
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|mr|tliompson|marri|miss|sarah|e|sweeni|and
on|the|17th|of|march|of|that|year|leas|the|buena|vista|hotel|in|glouc
ter|camden|counti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|built|the|thompson|hous|of
the|same|place|and|about|this|time|leas|the|shadtish|ground|in|the
delawar|river|a|littl|later|he|purchas|these|togeth|with|the|whole
front|of|the|delawar|river|from|the|gloucest|ferri|south|to|a|point
beyond|washington|park|a|valuabl|fish|water|front|of|three|and|a
half|mile
congression|district|of|new|jersey|sixty-five
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|purchas|the|gloucest|ferri|and|built|the|camden|glou
cester|woodburi|street|railway|for|mani|year|one|of|his|princip
interest|has|been|the|develop|of|washington|park|a|beauti|resort
in|mani|way|unparallel|throughout|the|entir|countr|he|first|visit
the|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|recogn|it|possibl|determin|that|some|day
he|would|buy|it|and|transform|it|into|the|park|which|now|furnish|enjoy
ment|to|so|mani|thousand|of|peopl|annual|he|has|here|five|hundr
acr|of|land|and|the|place|is|suppli|with|merrygoround|chute|and|all
kind|of|amus|which|contribut|to|the|pleasur|of|both|old|and|young
one|of|the|most|note|band|of|the|countri|libretti|s|new|york|band|of
one|hundr|piec|has|been|engag|for|the|past|four|year|to|give|after
noon|and|even|concert|in|the|park|at|the|rate|of|two|thousand|dollar
a|week|an|electr|fountain|was|construct|at|a|cost|of|seventyf|thou
sand|dollar|firework|add|to|the|attract|of|the|place|and|noth
for|the|comfort|and|conveni|of|the|patron|is|lack|tlii|park|is|un
equal|by|ani|other|park|in|the|entir|countrv|it|is|celebr|for|the|good
order|alway|maintain|there|and|for|this|reason|is|patron|by|the|best
class|of|peopl|on|the|fourth|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|there|were|one|hundr|and
twentyf|thousand|peopl|upon|the|ground|the|park|is|a|favorit|resort
with|the|philadelphia|peopl|be|easili|reach|by|electr|car|and|by
steamboat|it|is|beauti|locat|on|the|delawar|river|just|across|the
gloucest|counti|line|and|sever|fine|steamer|carri|passeng|to|and
from|the|citi|even|summer|mr|thompson|set|asid|two|day|for|the
entertain|of|the|poor|at|the|park|one|day|he|entertain|the|poor|chil
dren|of|philadelphia|anoth|of|camden|and|gloucest|while|each|of|the
charit|home|of|philadelphia|have|a|day|set|apart|for|their|special|use
on|these|day|the|steamer|and|trolley|car|bring|the|visitor|to|the|ground
free|of|charg|and|no|charg|is|made|for|ani|of|the|amus|everyth
be|free|for|the|use|of|thousand|to|whom|fate|has|not|vouchsaf|great
happi|he|has|had|sixti|thousand|poor|children|from|philadelphia|here
in|a|singl|day|the|improv|made|on|the|park|have|cost|altogeth
one|million|dollar|he|use|as|a|hotel|the|old|coloni|mansion|of|general
howel|the|first|governor|of|new|jersey|and|it|is|still|in|a|perfect|state|of
preserv
mr|thompson|also|has|two|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|land|in|the|south
jersey|jockey|club|race|track|which|he|reclaim|from|the|river|delawar
he|conduct|race|there|ven|success|for|mani|year|he|also|own
a|seasid|resort|of|sever|hundr|acr|near|long|branch|on|which|are
mani|beauti|cottag|and|hotel|the|place|be|call|harey|cedar
he|is|the|proprietor|of|fort|nassau|near|gloucest|where|the|first|settl
sixty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ment|of|the|delawar|river|was|made|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|and|his|home|locat|in
gloucest|is|one|of|the|most|beauti|resid|in|the|southern|part|of|the
state|it|is|locat|on|the|delawar|bank|and|command|a|beauti|view
of|the|stream|and|surround|countri|on|his|three|and|a|half|mile|of
water|front|he|has|two|shad|fisheri|with|net|three|mile|long|which|they
haul|four|time|a|day|catch|four|thousand|shad|at|a|haul|peopl|come
for|mile|to|see|this|wonder|fish|which|inde|is|a|marvel|catch
with|mani|other|enterpris|mr|thompson|is|also|associ|he|is
larg|interest|in|the|lumber|busi|in|alabama|be|the|presid|of
the|mobil|sawmil|lumber|compani|which|has|the|finest|plant|of|the
kind|in|the|countri|he|is|an|extens|stockhold|in|mani|mine|in|the
west|is|the|treasur|and|the|heaviest|stockhold|in|the|camden|glouc
ter|woodburi|electr|railway|is|the|treasur|and|the|princip|owner
of|the|stock|of|the|philadelphia|gloucest|ferri|compani|and|has|been
the|support|of|other|busi|interest|which|have|contribut|larg|to
the|general|welfar
in|his|polit|affili|mr|thompson|is|a|stalwart|democrat|and
was|the|recogn|leader|of|his|parti|in|this|section|of|the|state|for|mani
year|he|serv|as|a|deleg|to|the|nation|convent|in|st|loui|and
chicago|when|presid|cleveland|was|nomin|for|the|second|and|third
time|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|was|elect|to|the|new|jersey|legislatur|where|he|serv
for|two|term|dure|which|time|he|was|the|control|spirit|in|the|hous
he|deserv|great|credit|for|the|fact|that|he|was|instrument|in|inaugur
the|stoneroad|movement|in|camden|counti|which|result|in|secur
good|road|throughout|the|southern|section|of|the|state|he|did|this|while
serv|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|freehold|from|the|second|ward|of
gloucest|which|posit|he|fill|for|fourteen|year|he|has|also|been
a|repres|of|that|ward|in|the|citi|council|for|seventeen|year|mani
time|he|has|refus|to|accept|feder|offic|prefer|to|devot|his|ener
gie|to|his|busi|interest|but|was|in|the|new|jersey|legislatur|dure
one|of|it|most|memor|session
by|his|marriag|to|miss|sweeni|mr|thompson|becam|the|father|of
ten|children|five|of|whom|are|live|as|follow|j|a|lawyer|of|camden
sadi|e|john|s|leon|a|and|rufus|b|all|at|home|one|son|rich|j
now|deceas|was|a|veri|bright|boy|and|great|assist|his|father|lia
charg|of|the|financ|of|the|park|mr|and|mrs|thompson|are|veri|chari
tabl|peopl|and|are|devout|menib|of|the|cathol|church|in|the|sum
mer|time|they|distribut|mani|veget|among|the|poor|and|in|the|winter
mani|load|of|coal|sent|by|them|find|their|way|to|the|home|of|the|needi
one|in|camden|and|gloucest|mr|thompson|right|believ|in|give
coxgressioxl|district|of|nejv|jersey|6j
work|to|the|poor|when|they|desir|it|and|never|refus|to|furnish|some|kind
of|employ|to|the|man|who|seek|it|he|has|had|as|high|as|one|thou
sand|men|in|his|employ|and|throughout|the|past|ten|year|has|alway|had
at|least|six|hundr|men|in|his|employ|he|is|veiw|kindheart|yet|when
necess|demand|it|can|be|veri|stern|in|his|deal|with|other|he|never
in|ani|way|discourag|or|i|willtreat|the|man|who|is|down|believ|it|to|be
the|duti|of|peopl|to|rais|the|fallen|rather|than|to|forc|them|to|remain|in
the|depth|which|they|have|reach|he|contribut|most|liber|to|chari
tabl|and|benevol|associ|yet|his|give|is|not|ostentati|and
much|of|it|is|never|known|to|the|public|his|success|has|been|truli|remark
abl|but|is|larg|due|to|his|honesti|in|all|busi|transact|though
he|start|out|in|life|as|a|poor|boy|he|is|today|a|millionair|and|be|a|man
of|broad|humanitarian|principl|mani|thousand|have|benefit|by|his|pros
periti
thoma|j|craven
in|the|picturesqu|old|countri|of|yorkshir|england|the|craven|famili
has|been|establish|for|mani|generat|and|it|repres|have|figur
not|inconspicu|in|the|histori|of|the|british|empir|hold|prestig|on
the|score|of|sterl|worth|of|charact|and|mark|intellectu|from
the|craven|of|yorkshir|the|immedi|subject|of|this|review|is|descend
and|while|he|may|well|feel|a|distinctix|pride|in|his|english|lineag|yet|even
greater|may|be|the|satisfact|with|which|he|revert|to|the|ancestr|iden
tific|with|annal|of|the|american|republ|for|the|origin|american
repres|of|the|name|took|up|his|abod|here|in|the|earli|coloni|day
and|through|success|generat|the|name|has|grant|honor|to|and
receiv|honor|from|this|nation
thoma|craven|the|emigr|ancestor|came|to|the|new|world|from
london|england|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty|he|was|a|man|of|fine|intellectu|gift|have
receiv|his|educ|in|oxford|colleg|he|was|by|profess|a|tutor
after|come|to|america|and|was|employ|in|that|capac|in|the|colleg
of|new|jersey|at|princeton|attain|a|posit|of|distinct|in|connect
with|educ|work|he|die|in|vmwell|hunterdon|counti|new|jer
sey|after|a|long|and|use|life|thoma|craven|marri|elizabeth|wall
of|monmouth|counti|new|jersey|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|eight
children|of|whom|we|make|brief|record|as|follow|anna|who|was|born
in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-seven|die|unmarri|at|ringo|new|jersey|at|an|advanc|age
thoma|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|john|who|was|born|juli|three|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|was|the|great
grandfath|of|the|subject|of|this|sketch|miriam|was|liorn|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|and
sixty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|gershom|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|or|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-six|marri|rebecca
quick|he|was|a|physician|bj|profess|and|won|distinct|as|a
surgeon|in|washington|s|armi|dure|the|war|of|the|revohit|it|is
worthi|of|note|that|certain|of|gershom|craven|s|descend|have|won|dis
tinction|in|connect|with|mihtari|and|naval|affair|the|craven|in|the
navi|of|the|unit|state|at|the|present|time|be|repres|of|the
line|while|other|have|becom|promin|as|engin|dr|gershom|cra
ven|resid|for|mani|year|at|ringo|xew|jersey|where|he|was|a|prom
inent|member|of|st|andrew|s|protest|episcop|church|samuel|craven
the|sixth|child|in|the|famili|of|thoma|and|elizabeth|all|craven|was
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-nine|and|die|in|infanc|william|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-one|becam|a|purser|in
the|unit|state|navi|joseph|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-four|was|accident|kill|while|a
student|at|princeton|colleg
john|craven|the|greatgrandfath|of|him|whose|name|initi|this
articl|was|an|offici|in|the|navi|depart|of|the|govern|durmg
madison|s|administr|and|man|year|afterward|his|death|occur
in|the|capit|citi|of|the|nation|where|his|remain|were|inter|in|the
congression|cemeteri|he|marri|ann|stewart|a|daughter|of|dr|david
stewart|of|port|penn|delawar|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|one|son
and|three|daughter|namel|thoma|mar|isabella|and|eliza|r|after
the|death|of|his|first|wife|ir|craven|consumm|a|second|union|be
unit|to|ann|richardson|who|bore|him|one|son|elijah|r|who|was|a
physician|at|the|citi|of|washington|but|who|die|earli|leav|a|son|of
the|same|name|who|is|a|promin|presbyterian|clergjman|he|had
charg|of|a|church|for|forti|year|at|newark|new|jersey|but|is|now|on|the
presbyteri|board|at|philadelphia|john|craven|die|novemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine
thoma|craven|grandfath|of|thoma|j|was|a|promin|and|influenti
farmer|of|newcastl|counti|delawar|he|marri|nanci|aspril|and|they
becam|the|parent|of|the|follow|name|children|thoma|a|illiam
david|s|ann|jefferson|lydia|jone|john|mar|and|joseph|the
father|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-one|and|his|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|his|wife|who
was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one
david|stewart|craven|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|at|port|penn
delawar|on|the|28th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and two|and|his|death|occur|februari|seventeen
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|on|the|first|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|he|marri|rebecca|jane|vandegrift|of
dutch|extract|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|three|children|name
mari|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|unmarri|john|e|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four
die|in|the|same|year|and|john|v|who|was|born|januari|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|is
associ|in|busi|with|thoma|j|our|subject
thoma|jenkin|craven|was|born|at|philadelphia|pennsylvania|on|the
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|sixty-nine
qth|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|but|was|rear|in|newcastl|counti|delawar|where
he|receiv|his|preliminari|educ|after|which|he|complet|a|cours|of
stud|a|delawar|colleg|at|newark|delawar|graduatug|at|that|nst
tution|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|on|leav|colleg|he|becam|promment|y|identifi|with
agricultur|interest|m|newcastl|countv|but|came|to|salem|new|jersey
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|in|this|place|has|becom|recogn|as|a|repres|citizen
and|busi|man|be|identifi|with|one|of|the|most|import|mdiistm
enterpris|of|the|thrive|and|beauti|littl|citi|there|s|no|nduti|or
which|salem|is|more|just|and|wide|celebr|than|that|of|t|ni
ure|of|glass|the|greatest|progress|has|mark|the|histori|o|the|lead
concern|engag|in|the|busi|and|their|work|in|extent|and|equip
rival|anv|found|in|new|jersey
thesalem|glass|work|of|which|mr|craven|is|at|presen|the|presid
of|the|oper|compani|were|found|in|one hundred and eighty-six|by|hall|pancoa
craven|who|were|succeed|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|by|john|y|craven|the|expans|of
the|enterpris|led|to|the|incorpor|of|the|present|compani|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|_|ihe
subject|of|this|review|becam|identifi|with|the|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|associ
hnself|with|his|brother|john|v|craven|under|the|firm|titl|of|craven
brother|which|obtain|until|the|incorpor|of|the|present|stock|com
panv|stvled|the|salem|glass|work|the|offic|of|the|compani|are|as
follow|thoma|j|craven|presid|d|barton|bullock|treasur|lotus
pancoast|secretarv|while|the|director|compris|john|craven|you
stewart|craven|thoma|j|craven|d|barton|bullock|and|loui|pancoa
the|companv|have|two|larg|plant|one|on|third|and|one|on|fourth|street
cover|an|area|of|nearlv|eight|acr|the|five|larg|factori|build|are
thoroughlv|equipi|with|the|latest|improv|machineri|and|applianc|for
the|rapid|and|econom|product|of|hollow|glasswar|the|work
combin|have|a|capac|for|turn|out|about|five|hundr|gross|of|various
size|bottl|each|day|and|an|averag|forc|of|four|hundr|skill|opera
tive|is|regular|emplovecl|the|output|of|the|great|factori|is|of|superior
qualitv|and|the|product|finl|a|readi|demand|in|all|section|of|the|l|mou
fronthig|on|fourth|street|the|compani|have|a|general|store|which|is
stock|with|a|complet|assort|of|dr|good|groceri|provis|fur
nish|good|boot|and|shoe|and|miscellan|merchandis|and|here
the|employe|of|the|concern|as|well|as|the|general|public|are|abl|to|secur
reliabl|good|at|most|reason|price|this|adjunct|of|the|busi|be
one|which|is|dulv|appreci|by|the|mani|workmen|employ|m|the|fac
tori|of|the|companv|the|enterpris|is|one|which|has|mark|influenc
on|the|progress|and|materi|prosper|of|the|citi|and|salem|s|posit|as|a
seventy|biograph|histori|of|the|first
manufactur|center|has|been|greatl|ailvanc|l|y|the|oper|of|the
salem|glass|work
in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|mr|craven|was|unit|in|marriag|to|esther|c|how
the|daughter|of|rev|jame|c|how|for|t|entyf|year|the|pastor|of|the
presbyterian|church|of|st|georg|s|delawar|and|they|becam|the|parent
of|seven|children|henri|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|john|born
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|samuel|h|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|die|within|the|succeed
year|letitia|h|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|dai|l|stewart|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|mari|b
was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|jane|v|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|the|death|of|mrs|craven
occur|in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|on|the|27th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|mr|craven
was|unit|in|marriag|to|ir|isabel|jame|nee|ford|a|daughter|of|david
ford|a|promin|manufactur|of|philadelphia|where|his|death|occur
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|at|the|age|of|forti|year|he|was|a|repres|of|one|of|the
old|famili|of|newcastl|counti|delawar|where|he|was|born|he|mar
rie|miss|lydia|donnal|and|the|had|three|children|alliert|m|who
resid|in|salem|new|jersey|iren|who|die|at|the|age|of|seven|ear|and
isabel|mrs|craven|who|was|born|in|philadelphia|septemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven
mrs|craven|wus|educ|at|wilmington|delawar|and|is|wide|known
as|a|woman|of|mani|accomplish|and|gracious|digniti|she|hold|a
posit|of|distinct|promin|in|social|circl|of|various|order|and|her
talent|and|gentl|refin|have|given|her|a|mark|popular|she|is|a
member|of|the|societi|of|coloni|dame|and|is|the|presid|of|the|new|jer
sey|branch|of|this|organ|iir|craven|is|also|the|presid|of|the|board
of|ladi|visitor|of|the|train|school|for|feebl|mind|children|at|vine
land|this|state|an|institut|in|which|she|take|much|interest|togeth
wth|other|philanthrop|and|charit|work|she|has|taken|a|veri|live
interest|in|the|work|of|the|societi|and|has|been|a|leader|in|other|organiza
tion|she|was|former|vice|presid|of|the|state|feder|of|women|s
qub|of|new|jersey|and|was|one|of|the|founder|of|the|woman|s|clul|of
salem|of|which|she|former|serv|as|presid|mrs|craven|also|repr
sent|the|first|congression|district|of|new|jersey|in|the|georg|aash
ton|memori|associ|whose|princip|object|is|to|secur|the|establish
ment|of|a|memori|univers|at|the|nation|capit
in|his|polit|adher|mr|craven|is|array|in|support|of|the|demo
cratic|parti|and|it|principl|but|is|not|an|actn|partisan|worker|he|is
an|ardent|sportsman|and|take|great|pleasur|in|the|attract|afield|and
afloat|with|gun|and|rod|he|is|a|member|of|the|societi|son|of|coloni
war|also|of|the|salem|countri|club|and|his|popular|in|social|circl|is
equal|to|that|which|is|accord|in|connect|with|busi|affair|he|is
publicspirit|in|his|disposit|and|has|an|abid|interest|in|all|that|con
congression|district|of|new|jersey|seventy-one
serv|the|progress|and|prosper|of|the|citi|of|salem|his|resid|is|one
of|the|most|attract|in|this|citi|of|beauti|home|and|here|a|gracious|hos
pital|is|dispens|to|a|repres|circl|of|friend
thoma|b|turner|a|m|m|d
the|stibject|of|this|sketch|is|one|of|the|lead|citizen|of|swedesboro
new|jersey|and|own|and|occupi|one|of|the|handsomest|resid|in
the|southern|part|of|the|state|he|was|born|on|a|farm|in|woolwich|town
ship|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|is|a|son|of|isaac
h|and|keziah|black|turner|the|histori|of|the|turner|famili|in|america
date|back|to|a|period|previous|to|the|revolutionari|war|when|three|broth
er|john|michael|and|restor|turner|came|from|england|and|locat|in
new|jersey|michael|subsequ|enter|the|english|armi|and|was|never
afterward|heard|from|john|settl|where|turnersvill|new|jersey|is|now
locat|and|restor|establish|his|home|about|midway|between|swede
boro|and|auburn|new|jersey|restor|turner|becam|the|father|of|the
follow|name|children|restor|who|live|to|the|age|of|seventi|year
and|die|in|swedesboro|john|who|die|at|the|same|place|at|the|age|of
fiftysix|year|samuel|who|die|at|the|age|of|seventi|year|in|indiana
where|he|had|a|famili|and|own|a|larg|tract|of|land|isaac|h|who|die|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|at|the|age|of|seventyeight|year|on|the|old|homestead|gideon|who
die|at|the|age|of|sixtynin|year|near|the|old|homestead|jonathan|who
die|at|the|age|of|twentytwo|year|martha|who|marri|john|avi|of
woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|rebecca|who|marri|mose|ale
of|salem|new|jersey|sarah|who|marri|georg|shoemak|of|woolwich
township|and|rachel|who|die|in|earli|life|isaac|h|turner|had|three
children|rachel|who|die|at|the|age|of|eleven|year|thoma|b|whose
name|introduc|this|sketch|and|virginia|he|wife|of|charl|fritz|of|phila
delphia|pennsylvania
dr|turner|receiv|his|earli|educ|in|union|school|logan|town
ship|and|prepar|for|colleg|in|fort|edward|on|the|hudson|he|enter
princeton|colleg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|and|four|year|later|was|graduat|thirtyfifth|in
a|class|of|eightyseven|he|then|matricul|at|the|univers|of|pennsyl
vania|where|he|pursu|a|medic|cours|and|graduat|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five
immedi|after|his|graduat|he|enter|upon|his|profession|career|in
mount|holli|new|jersey|where|he|remain|six|month|remov|thenc
to|harrisonvill|where|he|practic|two|and|a|half|year|circumst
at|this|time|seem|to|favor|a|return|to|the|homestead|farm|which|he|did
7j|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|was|here|engag|in|seedgrow|he|stih|own|the
homestead|and|an|adjoin|farm|on|which|he|doe|a|general|truckfarm
busi|he|remov|to|swedesboro|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|has|sinc|resid|at|his
present|locat|his|home|is|a|larg|threestori|frame|resid|fit
and|furnish|with|all|the|modern|luxuri|and|surround|by|a|beauti
lawn|compris|eleven|and|a|half|acr|the|whole|make|one|of|the|finest
resid|in|southern|new|jersey
dr|turner|was|marri|april|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|to|miss|sarah|s|plummer|a
daughter|of|jame|l|and|elizabeth|witham|plummer|of|swedesboro
tliey|have|four|children|as|follow|elizabeth|p|who|is|the|wife|of|edgar
hurff|a|farmer|of|swedesboro|cordelia|p|the|wife|of|wilbert|ashcraft
and|with|their|daughter|cordelia|e|they|resid|on|one|of|the|doctor|s
farm|and|plummer|l|j|and|pressi|tommazetta|who|are|at|home
the|doctor|and|his|famili|attend|worship|at|the|methodist|episcop
church|he|is|a|member|and|examin|surgeon|of|the|local|a|o|you|w
and|is|also|the|examin|surgeon|of|the|heptasoph|his|polit|view|are
those|of|the|republican|parti|in|all|matter|of|public|issu|he|take|a|com
mendabl|interest|and|especi|has|he|shown|an|interest|in|educ
affair|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste|of|woolwich|town
ship|and|has|serv|as|clerk|of|the|board
edward|l|allen|d|d
one|of|the|most|emin|divin|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|a
celebr|lectur|and|a|hero|of|the|civil|war|is|edward|livingston|allen
who|has|been|the|pastor|at|centerton|for|the|past|three|year|he|is|a|rep
resent|of|two|of|the|most|promin|famili|of|the|state|the|alien
and|the|livingston|he|was|born|in|paterson|new|jersey|juli|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six
and|his|father|henri|r|allen|was|a|nativ|of|blauveltvill|new|york|and
was|a|son|of|robert|allen|whose|birth|occur|in|england|and|who|came
to|the|unit|state|about|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred|the|patern|greatgrandfath
was|a|member|of|the|hous|of|common|in|the|mother|countri|robert|allen
manifest|his|loyalti|to|his|adopt|land|by|serv|in|the|navi|in|the|war
of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|afterward|marri|polli|sear|a|daughter|of|the|owner|of|the
farm|upon|which|andr|the|english|spi|of|the|revolut|was|hung|this
properti|be|locat|at|tappan|new|york
henri|r|allen|was|a|distinguish|inventor|and|expert|draftsman|and
his|work|won|him|a|reput|which|extend|over|a|wide|section|of|the
countri|he|made|the|draft|for|the|harlem|bridg|at|new|york|for|the
new|york|central|railroad|compani|and|also|drew|the|plan|of|mani|other
congression|district|of|new|jersey|seventy-five
note|bridg|and|for|the|first|turbin|watervheel|for|one|watson|manufac
nhrc|compani|of|paterson|new|jersey|in|the|hne|of|mechantc|dra
n|h|had|few|equal|and|his|invent|genius|in|this|regard|won|h|m|mark
stinction|in|industri|circl|he|was|one|of|the|charter|mem
methodist|episcop|church|at|paterson|and|serv|on|is|board|of|trus|ee
xnr|about|sixti|year|of|age|he|was|made|a|royal|arch|mason|one|of|the
w|hc|h|e|beladmut|to|the|order|so|late|in|life|he|ne|e
livingston|a|daughter|of|artemus|livmgston|who|was|of|huguenot|ce
cent|atl|a|repres|of|one|of|the|wealthiest|famili|m|passag|counti
the|children|were|born|of|this|union|edward|l|amanda|the|wfe|of
tohn|g|beld|of|paterson|new|jersey|and|etta|the|wi|e|of|john|i
holt|of|paterso|who|was|the|speaker|of|the|new|jersey|legislatur|m
seven thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|the|father|of|these|children|was|call|to|his|fina|rest|on|chnstma
day|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|the|mother|pass|away|juli|i|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|advanc|age|of
rev|e|l|allen|was|fortun|in|have|good|home|surround|and
in|be|provid|with|excel|educ|privileg|he|attend|the
public|elementari|and|high|school|of|paterson|and|aftenvard|pursu|s
ses|in|rutger|colleg|and|m|the|drew|theolog|senari|b
he|had|complet|his|cours|the|civil|war|was|inaugur|and|eehng|that
his|dtu|s|at|the|front|he|put|asid|his|textbook|and|offer|his|servic
drallen|as|onlv|fifteen|vear|of|age|when|on|the|14th|of|august|one hundred and eighty-six
he|enlist|in|the|thirteenth|new|jersey|infantri|for|three|year|servic
bing|discharg|as|a|sergeant|june|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|his|regiment|was|at|first|con
nec|ed|with|the|twelfth|and|afterward|with|the|twentieth|corp|which|was
form|by|the|consolid|of|the|eleventh|and|twelfth|corp|with|hi
commandor|allen|took|part|in|some|of|the|tm|f|pf|j
the|war|includ|the|battl|of|south|mountain|antetan|chanceuorsv|lie
get|ysburg|rockv|face|ridg|resaca|cassvill|dalla|pine|knob|gulp|s
f|rm|ken|saw|mountain|nanci|creek|htree|creeksieg|of|a|a
sandersvill|savannah|averysboro|and|bentonvi|le|he|was|ound|d
three|time|by|rebel|bullet|but|was|never|absent|from|h|mmand|sae
thirtvsix|hour|and|that|time|under|pass|when|out|for|peoal|duti|h|as
on|the|color|guard|for|two|year|when|he|frequent|pass|through|thnlhng
danger|he|was|alway|loyal|found|at|his|post|and|made|for|himself|a|mili
tarvrecord|of|which|he|may|truli|be|proud
at|the|close|of|the|war|dr|allen|return|to|new|york|citi|and|com
plete|his|prepar|for|the|ministri|sinc|which|time|he|has|pach|he
gospel|in|differ|church|in|new|york|new|jersey|and|colorado|he|is
seventy-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
an|earnest|and|fluent|speaker|his|discours|be|at|onc|instruct|and
entertain|appeal|both|to|the|heart|and|the|head|of|his|auditor|his
influenc|for|good|has|been|most|mark|and|he|is|recogn|as|one|of|the
lead|minist|of|his|denomin|in|new|jersey|on|account|of|his
scholar|attain|and|literari|merit|the|degre|of|master|of|art|was
confer|upon|him|by|taylor|univers|and|that|of|doctor|of|divin|by
franklin|colleg|he|has|carri|his|labor|into|mani|field|connect|with
human|reform|progress|and|improv|the|becaus|of|temper|has
found|in|him|a|zealous|advoc|and|he|has|serv|as|grand|worthi|chief
templar|of|the|independ|order|of|good|templar|that|ancient|and
benevol|fraternit|the|mason|order|number|him|among|it|valu
follow|and|for|two|term|he|serv|as|right|worthi|grand|chaplain|he
was|also|the|chaplain|of|the|new|york|state|depart|of|the|grand|armi
of|the|republ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|and|in|i885|and|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|was|chaplain|of|the|new|york
state|senat
the|doctor|is|a|man|of|veri|broad|cultur|has|studi|both|law|and
medicin|and|in|literari|circl|has|gain|distinct|as|the|author|of|a|popu
lar|work|on|the|civil|war|he|is|also|a|favorit|on|the|lectur|platform|and
in|various|section|of|the|countri|has|address|larg|audienc|on|the|sub
ject|both|side|of|armi|life|the|grave|and|the|gay|and|how|we
fought|forag|and|frolick|on|sherman|s|campaign|he|is|an|elo
quent|speaker|possess|mark|orator|abil|and|the|patho|and|hu
mor|of|his|lectur|often|move|to|tear|and|laughter|he|wield|a|facil|pen
and|is|master|of|the|art|of|rhetor|while|neath|the|flower|of|speech|is|a
substratum|of|thought|and|feel|that|never|fail|to|command|the|attent
and|commend|of|his|hearer
the|home|life|of|dr|allen|has|been|veri|happi|he|was|marri|on
the|nth|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|to|maggi|e|post|a|daughter|of|richard|post
and|their|union|has|been|blest|with|four|children|t|may|wife|of|h|c|till
son|of|highland|new|york|edward|g|of|west|elizabeth|pennsylvania
livingston|c|who|is|a|student|in|pennington|seminani|new|jersey|and
grace|at|home
at|this|point|it|would|be|almost|redund|to|enter|into|ani|seri|of
statement|as|show|our|subject|to|be|a|man|of|broad|intellig|and
genuin|public|spirit|for|those|have|been|shadow|forth|between|the|line
of|this|review|strong|in|his|individu|he|never|lack|the|courag|of|his
convict|but|there|are|as|domin|element|in|this|individu|a
live|human|sympathi|and|an|abid|chariti|which|as|taken|in|connect
with|the|sterl|integr|and|honor|of|his|charact|have|natur|gain
to|dr|allen|the|respect|and|confid|of|men
congressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|seventy-five
judg|c|h|sinxickson
an|enumer|of|those|men|of|the|present|generat|who|have|won
honor|and|pul|hc|recognit|for|themselv|and|at|the|same|time|have|hon
ore|the|state|to|which|they|belong|would|be|incomplet|were|there|failur
to|make|promin|refer|to|the|one|whose|name|initi|this|paragraph
he|hold|distinct|preced|as|an|emin|lawyer|and|statesman|and|as|a
judg|has|won|the|commend|of|the|legal|profess|and|the|discnm
inat|public
a|resid|of|salem|judg|clement|hall|sinnickson|is|also|a|nativ|ot
that|citi|his|birth|have|occur|there|septemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|his|parent
were|john|and|rebecca|hall|sinnickson|and|the|ancestri|of|the|famili
can|be|trace|ijack|through|mani|generat|in|coloni|day|the|famili
was|found|in|america|and|when|the|origin|settlement|was|made|a|tract
of|two|thousand|acr|of|land|was|purchas|from|the|indian|lost|ot
this|is|still|in|the|possess|of|repres|of|the|name|and|the|old
homestead|which|was|built|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-eight|is|still|own|by|the|famili|when|the
yoke|of|british|oppress|lecam|too|heavi|to|be|longer|born|the|swed
ish|and|german|peopl|were|among|the|first|to|declar|loyalti|to|the|repub
lic|and|the|sinnickson|were|of|the|number|andrew|sinnickson|the
greatgreatgrandfath|of|our|subject|was|a|member|of|the|first|council|of
the|provinc|of|new|jersey|and|was|a|member|of|both|provinci|con
gress|held|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|and|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|serx|in|that|capac|at|the|time|new
jersev|was|declar|a|state|he|was|a|promin|and|influenti|citizen
serv|as|a|memler|of|the|first|state|legislatur|from|the|southern|district
and|was|one|of|the|nine|men|who|pledg|themselv|to|furnish|money|to
settl|the|militari|troubl|in|new|jersey|at|the|time|of|the|revolutionar
war|a|man|of|consider|wealth|he|contribut|generous|in|respons
to|the|call|that|were|made|for|money|need|in|prosecut|the|war|and
in|establish|a|perman|form|of|govern|in|the|state|he|had
three|son|and|two|sonsinlaw|who|particip|in|the|struggl|for|ind
pendenc|and|render|etifici|aid|to|the|colonist|when|the|representa
tive|of|the|british|govern|offer|to|sign|a|peac|treati|in|southern
new|jersey|almost|everi|one|in|that|section|of|the|state|was|includ|within
the|amnesti|proclam|but|among|the|few|exclud|were|the|sinnick
son|on|account|of|the|actix|part|which|the|had|taken|in|provok|re
sistanc|to|the|british|oppress|thoma|sinnickson|a|great|uncl|of
our|subject|serv|as|the|first|congressman|from|his|district|in|new|jersey
and|throughout|the|interven|year|repres|of|the|name|have|been
seventy-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
promin|factor|in|the|public|affair|which|go|to|shape|the|liistori|of|the
comnionwealt
through|marriag|the|famili|becam|connect|with|sever|other|influ
ential|famili|of|the|state|colonel|andrew|sinnickson|the|grandfath|of
the|judg|marri|imargaret|johnson|a|daughter|of|judg|robert|and|mar
garet|morgan|johnson|her|mother|was|a|daughter|of|and|mari
moulder|morgan|of|merci|hook|pennsylvania|her|father|judg
johnson|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-seven|and|serv|as|judg|and|justic|of|the|peac
from|one|seven hundred and sixty-one|to|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|his|father|also|name|robert|was|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|and
marri|mrs|margaret|sayr|widow|of|joseph|sayr|he|was|a|son|of
richard|and|mari|grover|johnson|the|former|born|in|guilford|surri
england|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-nine|becam|a|resid|of|salem|cotmti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five
he|serv|as|a|member|of|the|hous|of|burgess|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seven|and|was|judg|from
one thousand, seven hundred and ten|up|to|the|time|of|his|death|in|one thousand, seven hundred and nineteen|colonel|andrew|sinnickson|the
judg|s|grandfath|had|two|son|thoma|and|john|the|latter|marri
rebecca|k|hall|whose|ancestri|can|be|trace|back|to|william|hall|who
came|from|dublin|ireland|to|america|and|took|up|his|resid|in|elsin
boro|township|salem|counti|new|jersey|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-seven|in|one thousand, seven hundred and nine
he|becam|judg|and|fiuetl|the|josit|up|to|the|time|of|his|death|in|one hundred and seventy-one|eight
dure|the|latter|part|of|his|life|he|was|also|engag|in|merchandis|in
salem|he|marri|sarah|clement|of|gloucest|counti|and|they|had|a
son|william|hall|jr|who|was|born|august|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and one|and|marri|eliza
beth|smith|a|daughter|of|david|smith|whose|father|john|smith|a|resid
of|ambleburi|salem|counti|was|born|in|norfolkshir|england|in|one thousand, six hundred and twenty-three
with|his|famili|he|sail|in|the|ship|grififith|to|the|new|world|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|he
was|a|son|of|john|smith|of|norfolk|england|and|was|marri|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-eight|to
martha|crafto|a|daughter|of|christoph|crafto|of|nottingham|england
william|hall|jr|and|elizabeth|smith|had|a|son|clement|who|was|born
in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four|and|marri|margaret|morri|a|daughter|of|joseph|morri|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight
they|had|a|son|clement|jr|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|he
marri|rebecca|kay|daughter|of|joseph|and|ann|thompson|kay|of
gloucest|counti|new|jersey|and|their|daughter|rebecca|k|who|was
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|to|john|sinnickson|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine
and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|this|worthi|coupl|were|the|parent|of|our|subject
judg|clement|hall|sinnickson|has|throughout|his|life|resid|in|the
counti|which|was|the|ancestr|home|of|the|sinnickson|the|johnson|and
the|hall|have|acquir|his|preliminan|educ|in|the|public|school
of|salem|he|attend|the|polytechn|institut|of|troy|new|york|and|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|was|graduat|at|union|colleg|with|the|degre|of|bachelor|of|art
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|seventy-seven
and|civil|engin|on|the|complet|of|his|literari|cours|he|began|the
stttdv|of|law|with|andrew|sinnickson|of|salem|for|his|preceptor|and|was
afterward|a|student|in|the|offic|of|wilham|l|dayton|of|trenton|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight
he|was|admit|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|as|a|counselor|he
locat|in|practic|m|salem|and|soon|gain|a|larg|and|distmctiv|repr
sentat|clientag|his|argument|were|logic|forc|and|convmcmg|his
prepar|of|case|exactand|his|knowledg|of|the|lawi|comprehens|and
accur|these|qualiti|insur|success|to|the|practition|at|the|bar|and
soon|won|for|mr|sinnickson|a|lead|posit|among|his|profession
brethren|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|appoint|by|governor|grigg|to|the|posit|ot
iud|of|the|commonplea|court|of|salem|counti|and|has|sinc|accept
serv|in|that|capacitv|he|has|also|been|connect|with|busi|interest
outsid|of|his|profession|duti|and|is|now|a|director|of|the|farmer|mutua
fire|insur|companv|of|salem|counti|and|a|member|of|the|geologca
board|of|new|jersey|he|is|also|the|owner|of|a|part|of|the|origin|tract|of
land|purchas|by|the|famili|r|c|one
in|tune|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|judg|sinnickson|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|sarah
m|smith|a|daughter|of|lewi|p|and|henrietta|hancock|smith|they
had|two|children|but|both|die|in|infanc|the|judg|is|a|member|and|sec
retarv|of|the|vestri|of|the|episcop|church|and|belong|to|the|theta|de|ta
psi|a|colleg|fraternitv|he|also|hold|membership|in|johnson|post|no
sixty|g|r|at|salem|be|entitl|to|a|place|therein|by|reason|of|his|three
month|servic|in|the|civil|war|he|was|commiss|first|lieuten|and
promot|to|the|captainci|of|compani|i|of|the|fourth|regmient|of|new
tersev|volunt|and|was|sent|to|fort|runyon|washington|d|c|where
he|was|on|picket|dutv|he|is|also|the|vice|presid|of|the|son|of|the
revolut|of|new|jersev|in|polit|he|has|alway|been|a|stanch|republ
can|and|has|taken|a|verv|activ|part|in|the|work|of|advanc|it|interest
be|recogn|as|one|of|the|parti|leader|he|repres|his|district|in
congress|for|two|term|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|until|i879two|of|the|most|import
session|in|it|historv|he|was|als9|a|member|of|the|republican|state|com
mitte|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|upon|the|bench|he|has|discharg|his|duti|with|mark
prompt|and|abiuti|and|his|decis|have|been|model|of|perspicu|and
justic|his|logic|grasp|of|fact|and|principl|and|the|law|applic|to
them|has|been|anoth|element|in|his|success|and|a|remark|clear|of
express|an|adequ|and|precis|diction|which|enabl|hm|to|make
other|understand|not|onli|the|salient|point|of|his|argument|but|also|his
everi|fine|gradat|of|mean|may|be|account|among|his|most|conspicu
ous|gift|and|accomplish
biograph|histori|of|the|first
thoma|sixxicksox
thoma|sinnickson|jr|of|salem|x|ev|jersey|is|one|of|the|most|exten
sive|landown|and|progress|farmer|in|salem|counti|and|he|is|a|repr
sentat|of|one|of|the|oldest|and|wealthiest|famili|of|this|state|his|an
cestor|came|here|some|two|centuri|ago|and|their|descend|have|been
promin|in|this|part|of|the|state|ever|sinc|although|thoma|sinnickson
was|born|in|philadelphia|the|date|of|his|birth|is|januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|his
parent|charl|and|carolin|elizabeth|perr|sinnichsen|as|the|name|was
then|spell|had|remov|to|that|citi|some|time|previous|where|the
father|was|engag|in|busi|for|mani|year
in|one thousand, five hundred and fifty|sinnich|sinnichsen|was|ennobl|by|king|frederick|h|of|den
mark|and|given|possess|of|hestrip|in|angeln|denmark|in|one thousand, six hundred|his
son|carlen|sinnichsen|came|into|the|possess|of|this|properti|through|his
father|s|death|and|it|was|his|son|ander|that|found|the|famili|in|america
the|frequenc|with|which|the|name|ander|or|andrew|is|found|in|both
the|danish|and|american|branch|togeth|with|the|similar|of|spell
and|pronunci|of|the|surnam|sinnickson|or|sinnichsen|are|strong|evi
denc|that|both|are|from|the|same|origin|victor|j|n|sinnichsen|of|den
mark|believ|the|name|to|have|had|it|origin|in|germani|dure|the|middl
age|and|that|the|famili|were|in|possess|of|nobl|estat|in|that|countri
the|famili|coat|of|arm|still|retain|by|mani|danish|member|of|the|famili
consist|of|a|saddl|hors|tie|to|a|bush|or|low|tree|in|a|valley|andrew
sennickson|or|senecason|as|it|is|found|in|companion|hahn|s|histori|of
sweden|it|is|believ|came|to|america|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and twenty-seven|with|the|earliest
swedish|emigr|who|land|at|cape|hinlopen|now|henlopen|and
work|their|wav|up|the|delawar|river|and|settl|in|what|is|now|lower
penn|s|neck|township|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and forty-five|he|purchas|a|larg|tract|of
land|in|that|section|which|was|then|call|obisquahassit|and|upon|the|ar
rival|of|john|fenwick|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|to|take|possess|of|his|tenth|of|west|jersey
sinnick|sinnickson|secur|from|the|new|proprietor|a|quitclaim|deed|to
the|tract|in|consider|of|a|year|stipend|of|three|shill|mani|gen
erat|of|the|famili|have|made|their|home|upon|this|land|a|larg|portion
of|it|still|be|own|by|his|descend|accompani|him|to|america
were|two|son|ander|and|broor|or|brewer|the|latter|locat|in|dela
ware|and|his|descend|are|found|wide|diffus|over|delawar|and|penn
sylvania|and|spell|the|name|sinnexson|andrew|the|fourth|was|born|in
one|seven|eighteen|in|lower|penn|s|neck|and|was|one|of|the|most|promin|men|of|his
time|he|was|the|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|at|salem|under
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|seventy-nine
geo|e|iii|from|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-two|to|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|and|was|deputi|to|the|provinci|congress|of
newrsey|mav|twenty-three|seven hundred and seventy-five|he|was|also|a|deputi|in|the|state|convent
the|year|follow|and|a|member|of|the|irst|legisl|councd|of|the|state
vl|icrform|the|tate|govern|of|new|jsey|m|seven hundred and seventy-six|sodv
he|h|his|advocaci|of|american|independ|that|colonel|mawhood|of|the
en|lish|regular|made|a|proclam|march|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|mmg|hn|in
sonl|thoma|and|andrew|with|some|fifteen|other|chizen|of|salem|as|he
first|object|to|feel|the|vengeanc|of|the|brmsh|naton|to|ch|men
larg|due|the|success|outcom|of|the|war|of|the|f|one|j
marri|to|miss|sarah|gdjeansen|who|was|born|you|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|he|die|august
o|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|when|about|seventyon|year|of|age|and|left|a|larg|properti|to
be|distribut|among|his|numer|children|up
thoma|sinnickson|one|of|his|son|the|eldest|of|the|amd|as|th
command|of|the|second|battalion|of|salem|mihtia|m|the|contmenta
armi|and|was|elect|a|naval|ofcer|of|the|western|district|of|new|jersey|eleven
one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|he|was|present|at|the|battl|of|trenton|and|princeton|and|took|part
in|the|engag|around|gloucest|becaus|of|his|bitter|opposit
to|the|brftisl|voke|and|his|plain|wnting|on|the|question|lord|how|o
ere|a|reward|of|one|hundr|pound|sterl|for|him|either|dead|or|alu
he|continu|howev|to|serv|his|countri|to|the|best|of|his|abil|and
was|a|member|of|both|provinci|and|state|legislatur|and|a|mber|o|h
first|unit|state|congress|after|the|adopt|of|the|constitut|march|four
one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|in|new|york|citv|he|also|serx|as|a|congressman|seventeen thousand, nine hundred and seventy-nine|he
ws|a|warm|support|of|alexand|hamilton|and|a|leader|o|the|feder
oartv|in|his|section|of|the|countri|dure|the|administr|of|ashmgton
she|eld|dam|he|was|the|treasur|of|sem|coti|for|mani|ye
and|also|fill|the|ofhc|of|justic|and|judg|he|resid|sakm|le
he|had|larg|mercantil|and|realest|interest|and|marri|sarah|hancock
die|without|issu|t|one|one|in
indrew|sinnickson|4th|was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck|own|up|m
one thousand, seven hundred and forty-nine|on|the|old|obisquahassit|estat|he|move|to|salem|m|ate|lifead
die|julv|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|he|was|the|captain|of|the|first|battahonsalen
militia|and|paymast|for|salem|cumberiand|and|cape|ma|he|as
brave|and|fearless|and|made|a|dare|and|success|repuls|of|an|attack|by|a
forag|parti|on|his|premis|by|the|british|march|twenty|i778|he|as
unit|fn|matrimoni|four|time|his|wive|be|margaret|bi|derback|ma
garet|johnson|born|august|two|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|and|die|novemb|four|seventy-nine|sarah
copner|widow|of|andrew|sinnickson|a|distant|cousin|and|sarah|nom
thoma|sinnickson|was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck|township|on|decem
ber|thirteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|and|receiv|a|limit|educ|his|first|employ|was|a
8o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
clerkship|in|the|mercantil|establish|of|his|uncl|thoma|sinnickson
he|was|one|of|the|most|promin|leader|of|the|feder|part|in|salem
counti|later|affili|viixh|the|whig|and|republican|forc|and|was|a
stanch|support|of|the|union|dure|the|citl|war|he|as|the|presid
judg|of|the|coun|of|common|plea|for|sever|rear|judg|of|the|court|of
error|and|appeal|of|xew|jersey|and|a|member|of|the|legislatur|and|the
twentieth|nation|congress|he|probabl|setti|more|estat|of|deceas
parti|than|ani|other|man|in|salem|count|and|was|just|and|accur|in
his|accoimt|he|was|a|member|of|st|john|s|episcop|church|of|salem
and|for|mani|year|sere|as|vestryman|and|warden|he|was|a|man|of
fine|prof|ortion|and|command|presenc|whose|cordial|vet|dignifi|bear
ing|coupl|with|his|honor|record|mark|him|as|a|man|among|men
and|won|for|him|univers|respect|and|admir|he|was|marri|octob
i8|isio|to|elizabeth|daughter|of|john|and|mari|brintont|jacob|of
chester|count|pennsylvania|she|was|bom|august|three|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|and|die
august|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|thoma|sinnickson|die|februari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|the|fruit
of|this|imion|were|dr|john|jacob|who|was|bom|in|one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|graduat
in|the|medic|depart|of|jefferson|colleg|under|dr|georg|mcqellan
he|then|practic|in|virginia|and|mississippi|and|went|to|texa|as|a|brigad
surgeon|in|the|texan|armi|he|was|captur|at|the|battl|of|mier|and|i|am
prison|in|the|cit|of|mexico|after|his|releas|he|return|east|and|en
gage|in|the|coal|busi|with|his|brother|charl|in|philadelphia|for|a|few
year|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|when|he|move|to|salem|where|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he
was|unmarri|margaret|johnson|sinnickson|a5|bom|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen
and|marri|thoma|jone|york|charl|the|father|of|oiu|subject|was
the|next|in|order|of|age|and|andrew|was|the|youngest
charl|sinnickson|was|ikmti|in|salem|xew|jersey|in|1s16|and|was
educ|in|the|academi|of|that|dt|subsequ|he|learn|dvil|engin
ing|and|was|govern|surveyor|on|the|cheroke|resen|he|was|at
one|time|connect|with|the|philadelphia|wilmington|baltimor|and|the
tennesse|railroad|in|the|capadt|of|dvil|engin|about|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|he|em
bark|in|the|coal|busi|in|philadelphia|ship|to|arious|point|he
was|a|member|of|the|firm|of|roger|sinnickson|compani|and|own
mine|in|schuylkil|count|oper|the|caska|william|couier|from
which|larg|quantiti|of|coal|were|ship|he|did|an|extens|busi
and|later|wa5|assod|with|his|two|son|in|ship|coal|from|the|same
point|his|death|occur|in|philadelphia|march|seven|1s76|and|was|strong
felt|in|commerd|drdes|as|well|as|in|the|more|select|drcle|of|friend|he
was|an|oldlin|miig|but|was|afterward|identifi|with|the|democrat|parti
he|was|a|promin|member|of|the|philadelphia|oub|which|had|it|head
five
n|five
s
c|o
five|r|p
eight
o|p
h|i
one
lil
hrr|vf|seven
9b
bfctewm
ab
rjd
h
t
ft|tw|tl3f
fil
hi
l
lvxn|fls
mim
h
are
ea|hjv|vjh
iki
h
er|ifllln
h9
m
f
one
w
k|jh
is
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|8i
quarter|at|that|time|on|ninth|street|he|was|interest|in|all|local|affair
he|serv|for|sever|year|as|director|of|the|old|pennsylvania|bank|and
was|publicspirit|to|a|high|degre|he|marri|catherin|elizabeth|perri
a|daughter|of|charl|and|sarah|hufti|perri|and|rear|two|son
charl|perri|and|thoma|charl|perri|was|born|octolj|i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and
was|educ|in|the|episcop|academi|and|the|univers|of|pennsylvania
finish|his|educ|he|engag|in|the|coalship|busi|in|phila
delphia|with|his|father|and|found|it|a|most|profit|ventur|he|marri
miss|emma|rosengartenand|is|now|retir|from|activ|busi|and|resid
in|philadelphia|their|children|are|carolin|elizabeth|charl|georg
clinton|who|die|in|infanc|and|fanni
thoma|sinnickson|jr|was|a|student|in|the|episcop|academi|of|phil
adelphia|and|afterward|took|privat|lesson|of|major|mordecai|who|was
sent|by|our|govern|to|europ|with|general|mcclellan|to|studi|militari
tactic|he|studi|under|major|mordecai|for|two|year|and|then|accept
a|clerkship|in|the|firm|of|sinnickson|glover|which|he|held|for|two|and
onehalf|year|he|then|enter|a|partnership|with|his|brother|charl
and|thoma|j|york|under|the|firm|name|of|sinnickson|compani|and
engag|in|ship|coal|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|when|he|retir|from|the|firm|he
own|consider|properti|in|the|vicin|of|salem|the|old|homestead|in
lower|penn|s|neck|township|which|he|has|made|his|home|sinc|retir
from|commerci|life|and|which|contain|two|hundr|and|fortyf|acr
while|his|two|farm|immedi|adjoin|it|contain|one|hundr|and|fifti
acr|each|he|is|also|larg|interest|in|other|busi|enterpris|own
ing|stock|in|the|salem|opera|hous|the|electriclight|plant|and|is|a|director
in|the|salem|nation|bank
he|was|marri|octob|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|to|miss|franci|fornian|sinnickson
and|one|child|a|daughter|miss|alic|margaret|sinnickson|has|bless|their
home|the|famili|is|one|of|the|most|respect|and|esteem|in|the|counti
and|their|hospit|is|unbound|mr|sinnickson|has|late|purchas|the
thompson|properti|locat|on|broadway|in|salem|and|is|put|that
handsom|resid|through|a|process|of|remodel|that|will|make|it|one
of|the|most|conveni|modern|resid|in|the|citi|when|it|is|complet
it|is|his|intent|to|make|it|his|home|he|is|a|democrat|in|his|polit
view|and|an|attend|at|and|liber|contributor|to|the|episcop|church
he|was|former|a|member|of|the|halaska|cadet|corp|a|militari|school|of
philadelphia|while|a|resid|of|that|citi|he|is|wideawak|and|progr
sive|and|has|by|travel|ad|larg|to|an|alreadi|well|store|mind|after
retir|from|the|coal|busi|he|went|abroad|visit|dififer|part|of
europ|the|parent|of|mrs|sinnickson|are|j|howard|and|sarah|eliza
eighty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
beth|forman|sinnickson|and|her|grandpar|are|john|f|t|and|fran
chinchi|smock|forman|they|were|descend|of|dr|samuel|and|sarah
throckmorton
b|archer|waddington
one|of|the|lead|member|of|the|medic|profess|in|salem|counti
and|southern|new|jersey|is|b|a|waddington|m|d|who|come|from|one
of|the|old|counti|famili|he|enjoy|an|immens|practic|and|is|consid
an|author|upon|a|vast|number|of|the|diseas|to|which|flesh|is|heir
the|waddington|are|of|frenchhuguenot|origin|and|the|doctor|s|pa
ternal|grandfath|was|robert|waddington|a|farmer|and|respect|citizen
of|this|counti|jame|t|waddington|the|father|of|our|subject|was|one|of
the|lead|busi|men|of|the|town|of|salem|in|his|day
the|birth|of|dr|waddington|occur|februari|lo|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|in|salem|and
in|the|public|school|of|this|place|he|obtain|his|elementari|educ
when|he|had|arriv|at|a|suitabl|age|he|commenc|the|studi|of|medicin
under|the|preceptorship|of|dr|thoma|b|dickinson|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|was|gradu
ate|in|the|medic|depart|of|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|sinc
that|time|he|has|been|establish|in|salem|where|he|soon|built|up|an|exten
sive|practic|and|won|the|good|will|and|high|regard|of|his|profession
brethren|he|occupi|a|fine|fit|modern|suit|of|offic|where|all|of
the|necessari|medic|equip|and|conveni|are|to|be|found|his
counsel|is|frequent|sought|by|physician|and|surgeon|from|far|and|near
and|his|judgment|is|consid|conclus|well|found|and|final|dure
a|period|of|five|year|he|was|the|attend|physician|at|the|salem|counti
almshous|for|mani|year|he|has|also|act|an|import|part|in|numer
medic|organ|he|was|the|vicepresid|and|then|the|presid|of
the|salem|counti|medic|societi|and|was|the|censor|in|the|organ
for|year|he|has|been|a|deleg|to|the|new|jersey|state|medic|societi|and
has|frequent|repres|that|societi|in|the|state|medic|organ|of
pennsylvania|massachusett|and|delawar|he|has|for|a|number|of|year
been|a|perman|deleg|to|the|state|societi|for|fifteen|year|he|has|been
sent|as|a|deleg|to|the|american|medic|associ|and|twice|has|been
the|secretari|of|the|section|on|diseas|of|children|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|further
honor|by|be|appoint|as|a|member|of|the|auxiliari|committe|of|the
panamerican|medic|congress|and|the|same|year|he|was|appoint|the
censor|of|the|medicochirurg|colleg|of|philadelphia|mani|of|the
paper|which|he|has|present|are|regard|as|valuabl|contribut|to|the
literatur|of|the|medic|scienc
coxgressiox|district|of|neiv|jeksev|eighty-three
the|doctor|was|marri|octob|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|to|elizabeth|w|acton|a
daughter|of|benjamin|acton|she|die|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|and|march|twenty
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|dr|watkhngton|was|unit|in|matrimoni|with|mrs|hetti|c|davi
a|daughter|of|frankhn|and|ehzabeth|v|miller|one|of|the|mark|qualiti
of|dr|waddington|is|his|kindli|and|genuin|desir|to|help|other|in
everi|possibl|manner|under|his|wise|superintend|five|young|men|have
studi|medicin|in|his|offic|and|each|one|of|them|is|now|well|establish
in|practic|he|is|identifi|as|a|member|with|the|mason|and|with|the
broadway|methodist|episcop|church|in|his|daili|life|he|carri|out|the
nobl|principl|of|masonri|and|christian|and|love|to|aid|and|uiilift
cheer|and|insjir|his|fellow|men
loui|pancoast
loui|pancoast|is|a|son|of|joseph|and|alari|jane|barn|pancoast|he
was|born|in|salem|counti|about|forti|year|ago|he|is|descend|from|an
cestri|honor|and|distinguish|who|came|to|new|jersey|at|an|earli|day
and|through|hardship|and|suffer|such|as|the|present|generat|hae
littl|knowledg|of|assist|in|lay|the|foundat|for|the|present|iiro
peritv|progress|and|advanc|of|salem|counti|the|first|of|the|name|m
america|was|john|pancoast|who|emigr|from|london|england|take
passag|on|the|good|ship|mari|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-eight|he|was|at|one|time|sheriff|of|the
tenth|district|of|new|jersey|then|compris|a|territori|extend|from|the
middl|of|main|street|in|burlington|to|the|assinipink|creek|in|trenton|and
across|to|the|atlant|ocean|he|had|two|son|john|and|joseph|joseph
was|marri|and|among|his|children|was|a|son|name|edward|who|settl
near|clarksboro|new|jersey|he|and|his|wife|had|a|son|john|who|marri
sarah|a|daughter|of|bradway|and|jane|aaaddington|keasbi|of|hancock|s
bridg|new|jersey|they|settl|in|that|local|and|afterward|remov|to
mullica|hill|where|they|spent|their|remain|day|and|were|buri|in|the
friend|cemeteri|there|among|their|children|were|hannah|achsah|john
israel|david|c|and|aaron|k
david|c|pancoast|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|resid|in|woodstowa
but|follow|farm|in|pittsgrov|township|he|was|a|member|of|the|so
cieti|of|friend|and|in|polit|belief|was|a|stanch|republican|he|marri
ann|h|davi|a|daughter|of|joseph|and|mari|hain|davi|and|a|nativ
of|burlington|counti|new|jersey|her|father|was|born|on|the|15th|of
june|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-six|and|her|mother|novemb|one|one|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|they|had|eleven|children
seven|of|whom|reach|year|of|matur|mrs|ann|h|pancoast|die|in
eighty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|and|david|pancoast|pass|away|xovemlj
twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|in|his|seentycighth|ear|the|davi|famili|is|of|royal|descent
the|ancestri|be|trace|back|in|an|unl|roken|hne|to|edward|i|king|of
england|a|later|representati|of|the|famili|was|sir|thoma|wyatt|of
allington|castl|who|marri|ladi|jane|hawt|they|had|two|children
georg|and|ladi|jane|wyatt|the|latter|becam|the|wife|of|charl|scott
of|edgerton|kent|who|also|was|of|royal|descent|their|son|thoma|scott
of|edgerton|die|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-five|he|was|twice|marri|his|second|union|be
with|jane|knatchljul|whom|he|marri|in|one thousand, six hundred and four|and|who|die|in|one hundred and sixty-one|five|she
was|a|daughter|of|john|knatchbul|of|mershom|hatch|among|their|chil
dren|was|dorothea|scott|who|came|to|oyster|bay|long|island|new|york
in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|accompani|by|the|children|of|her|first|husband|major|daniel
gotherson|who|die|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-six|she|was|again|marri|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|becom
the|wife|of|john|davi|of|oyster|bay|they|remov|to|pile|grove|town
ship|salem|counti|in|one thousand, seven hundred and five|one|of|their|children|was|judg|david|davi
of|salem|counti|who|marri|dorothi|cousin|who|was|born|in|if|ninety-three|and
die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine
david|davi|was|the|second|child|of|judg|david|davi|and|dorothi
cousin|davi|he|was|born|in|salem|counti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty|and
marri|martha|cole|he|had|two|children|the|elder|david|davi|jr|re
side|in|salem|counti|and|marri|a|miss|hain|by|whom|he|had|three
children|anna|wife|of|allen|fennimor|martha|wife|of|tobia|griscom|of
salem|new|jersey|and|joseph|who|marri|a|miss|collin
joseph|davi|the|second|son|of|david|and|martha|cole|davi|resid
in|salem|counti|and|wed|mari|hain|they|had|two|children|the
elder|be|martha|who|becam|the|wife|of|william|folwel|and|the|mother
of|joseph|d|folwel|they|live|in|philadelphia|the|younger|anna
davi|becam|the|wife|of|david|c|pancoast|of|woodstown|new|jersey
the|patern|grandfath|of|loui|pancoast|whose|name|head|this|sketch
their|children|were|mari|d|joseph|d|martha|f|anna|david|william
charl|f|and|bell
of|this|famili|joseph|d|pancoast|was|the|father|of|our|subject|he
was|bom|in|woodstown|salem|counti|juli|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|was|educ|in
woodstown|and|the|fremont|seminari|at|morristown|pennsylvania|he
marri|miss|mari|jane|barn|of|woodstown|a|daughter|of|joseph|barn
and|a|lineal|descend|of|john|sharpless|the|matern|ancestri|has|been
trace|back|to|the|latter|part|of|the|seventeenth|centuri|and|is|a|record|of
which|our|subject|may|well|be|proud|john|sharpless|came|from|england
in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|with|three|son|john|jame|and|joseph|and|settl|in|the|southern
part|of|what|is|the|present|state|of|new|jersey|john|sharpless|jr|was
congression|district|of|nej|jersey|eighty-five
tlie|father|of|ann|sharpless|who|was|bom|in|seventeen|ten|and|marri|samuel|bond
of|maryland|her|remain|were|place|in|the|graveyard|at|shiloh|two
of|her|daughter|marri|two|liroth|elkanah|and|jonathan|davi|of
shiloh|this|state|the|latter|of|whom|was|pastor|of|the|shiloh|church|and
die|there|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|at|the|age|of|fiftytwo|year|his|wife|margaret|live|to
the|extrem|age|of|nineti|year|and|was|laid|to|rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|one|of|their
children|samuel|davi|was|also|pastor|of|the|same|church|as|his|father|for
mer|had|charg|of|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|at|the|age|of|seentyfi|year|he
was|marri|four|time|his|second|wife|be|the|daughter|of|joshua|ayar
and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-seven|she|left|an|onli|child|call|for|her|mother|mari|davi
who|was|born|januari|i|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-five|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|her|husband|was|lot
high|a|son|of|anderson|ouinci|high|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|and|die|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|they|had|a|larg|number|of|children|of|whom|phoeb|ann|the|eldest
was|the|grandmoth|of|our|suljject|she|was|unit|in|wedlock|to|joseph
barn|of|woodstown|who|was|a|son|of|joshua|and|rebecca|hain
barn|joshua|was|the|son|of|john|barn|a|proprietari|resid|of|pitt
grove|township|befor|woodstown|receiv|it|name|he|die|august|eleven
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|at|the|age|of|sixtytwo|year|his|wife|rebecca|was|from|burlington
countv|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|at|the|age|of|seventi|vear|jose|ih|barn|was
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|his|first|wife|phoeb|ann|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine
when|near|her|thirtyfifth|ear|they|have|three|children|still|lix|name
rebecca|who|marri|morri|hall|and|is|a|resid|of|missouri|araliella
who|marri|daniel|stratton|and|resid|in|the|same|state|and|lari|jane
who|marri|joseph|d|pancoast|and|is|the|mother|of|loui|pancoast
after|the|marriag|of|joseph|d|and|mari|jane|barn|pancoast|they
took|up|their|resid|on|the|old|homestead|farm|in|pittsgrov|township
where|they|remain|two|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|they|remov|to|salem|where|mr
pancoast|engag|in|the|mill|inisi|he|oper|the|old|white|stone
mill|four|year|and|then|becam|identifi|in|the|manufactur|of|glass|in|the
firm|of|hall|pancoast|craen|pic|was|a|practic|glassmak|and|con
duct|his|share|in|the|enterpris|in|a|high|credit|le|manner|contribut
in|no|small|degre|to|the|success|oper|of|the|busi|he|remain
in|this|firm|until|his|death|decemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|his|death|was|a|blow|to
the|compani|take|from|it|as|it|did|one|of|their|most|abl|and|efifici
ofcer|he|was|a|republican|in|his|polit|affili|and|a|member|of
the|hicksit|societi|of|friend|he|was|also|a|promin|mason|and|dur
ing|the|war|was|a|member|of|the|homeguard|militia|his|marriag|to|mari
jane|barn|was|solemn|februari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|and|result|in|the|birth|of
the|follow|children|name|loui|born|may|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|david|archer
born|mav|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|marri|helen|a|daughter|of|delwin|franci|smith
8f|biograph|histori|of|the|first
by|whom|he|has|one|child|franci|joseph|mari|davi|bom|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
marri|biddl|hile|june|three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|charl|fithian|born|septemb|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five
is|a|resid|of|philadelphia|where|he|is|engag|in|clerk|and|morri
hall|born|april|two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|is|employ|in|the|liank|depart|of|the
philadelphia|public|ledger
loui|pancoast|attend|the|high|school|of|salem|but|left|school|at|an
earli|age|to|accept|a|clerkship|in|his|father|s|glasswork|he|has|risen|from
that|posit|to|the|oflfic|of|secretarj|and|director|of|the|compani|and
give|to|the|busi|his|imdivid|attent|the|compani|aftenvard|took
the|name|of|the|salem|glass|ork|and|is|one|of|the|largest|glass|plant|in
this|i|art|of|the|state|and|doe|a|larg|busi|he|is|a|member|of|the|board
of|health|the|fenwick|club|and|the|countri|club|and|is|a|prime|favorit
in|social|circl|li|polit|he|is|a|warm|sympath|with|republican
and|keep|well|up|on|all|problem|of|the|day
on|the|one|2th|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|mr|pancoast|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|laura|casper|a|ladi|of|charm|person|and|mani|accomplish
ment|she|is|a|daughter|of|joseph|and|elizabeth|gillingham|casper
joseph|casper|son|of|tlioma|jefferson|casper|and|mari|ann|nee|and
erson|was|born|juli|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|in|salem|counti|his|occup|was|farm
until|he|was|about|twentythre|year|of|age|when|he|remov|to|philadel
phia|with|his|father|and|engag|in|keep|the|davi|hotel|he|marri
elizabeth|rich|gillingham|of|that|citi|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|die|februari
fourteen|1s79|by|a|railroad|accid|at|torresdal|pennsylvania|his|father
thoma|jefferson|casper|was|the|son|of|john|and|hannah|wentzel|cas
per|and|was|bom|juli|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and two|his|father|john|casper|was|the|son|of
lawrenc|casper|born|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|lawrenc|casper|s|father|also|name|law
renc|emigr|to|this|countn|from|germani|when|a|young|man|and
die|march|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|age|nineti|year|hannah|wentzel|casper|grand
mother|of|joseph|casper|was|the|daughter|of|charl|entzel|a|revolu
tionari|soldier|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|age|ninetytwo|year
the|ancestri|of|the|gillingham|famili|can|be|trace|back|to|yeaman
gillingham|who|was|the|first|of|the|name|in|this|countrv|he|came|to
anicrica|from|the|south|of|england|about|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|or|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|and|wed|mar
taylor|who|cross|the|atlant|about|the|same|time|they|had|seven|chil
dren|yeaman|purchas|one|hundr|acr|of|land|in|oxford|township
now|frankford|from|william|penn|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-six|and|afterward|sold|that
properti|to|thoma|bristol|who|on|the|nth|of|novemb|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six
sold|it|to|henri|paul|and|the|last|name|sold|it|to|yeaman|gillingham
the|grandson|of|yeaman|gillingham|first|the|latter|transact|occur
mach|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|his|properti|includ|all|the|land|enclos|by|the|road|lead
congressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|eighty-seven
ing|from|the|unit|state|arsenal|around|to|the|friend|meetinghous
thenc|northwest|to|tlie|black|run|thenc|by|near|a|straight|line|from
saconi|creek|to|the|river|and|the|arsenal|road|again|yeaman|gillingham
either|die|there|or|move|with|his|son|jame|to|the|edg|of|salisburi|town
ship|near|the|buckingham|meetinghous|general|henri|knox|offer
jame|gillingham|the|command|of|the|first|marin|corp|he|was|ser
geant|major|of|the|mcpherson|blue|the|same|jame|gillingham|was|in
the|battl|which|is|known|in|histori|in|connect|with|the|whiski|insurrec
tion|the|children|of|yeaman|and|mari|taylor|gillingham|were|ann
who|was|born|may|eight|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|and|marri|henri|paul|in|honor|of|whose
familv|paul|street|in|frankford|is|name|mari|who|was|born|octob|twenty-one
169s|and|liecam|the|wife|of|jame|wilson|sarah|who|was|born|septemb
twenty-seven|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-nine|and|marri|abraham|spicer|elizabeth|who|was|born|februari
twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and five|and|marri|samuel|eastburn|jame|who|was|born|august|two
one thousand, seven hundred and eight|marri|martha|canbi|and|die|novemb|four|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|joli|who|was
born|may|twelve|seventeen|ten|and|locat|in|philadelphia|and|susanna|who|was|born
novemb|twenty-nine|one hundred and seventy-one|two|the|children|of|jame|and|martha|canbi|gill
ham|were|john|who|had|twelv|children|yeaman|who|was|bom|august
fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-four|marri|ruth|preston|decemb|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three|and|after|her|death
wed|bridget|moon|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight|and|die|februari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|jame|who
live|in|philadelphia|was|born|juli|twenty-six|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|and|marri|phoeb|hallowel
joseph|who|was|born|may|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|marri|elizabeth|haney|and|live|at
falsington|until|his|death|may|seventeen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|thoma|who|live|in|philadelphia
martha|who|was|marri|to|jonathan|kinsey|june|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three|in|buck|counti
lavina|and|benjamin|the|canbi|famili|of|which|mrs|pancoast|is|a|de
scendant|was|found|in|america|by|thoma|canbi|who|came|to|this|coun
tri|juli|seventeen|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|a|justic|of|the|peac|from|one thousand, seven hundred and nineteen|to|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|and|was
a|member|of|the|legislatur|from|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one|to|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight
georg|l|smith
rev|georg|l|smith|is|now|the|pastor|of|the|presbyterian|church|at
elmer|and|through|his|devot|to|his|holi|call|has|exert|a|strong|in
fluenc|for|good|throughout|the|communiti|he|was|born|at|pound|ridg
westchest|counti|new|york|june|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|is|of|english|lineag
his|father|samuel|d|smith|was|a|son|of|j0i|smith|and|was|bora|it|is
confid|believ|in|monticello|new|york|his|patern|uncl|held
oirc|under|the|king|befor|the|revolutionari|war|and|his|matern|grand
father|was|judg|imil|of|revolutionari|fame|samuel|d|smith|follow
eighty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|dual|occup|of|merchandis|and|schoolteach|he|marri
salli|a|delavan|who|was|of|french|descent|and|they|becam|the|parent
of|three|children|roswel|d|who|is|a|minist|and|physician|of|new|york
georg|l|and|elbert|m|who|is|in|the|employ|of|the|delawar|lackawanna
western|railroad|in|bergen|counti|new|jersey|the|father|of|these|chil
dren|die|june|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|but|the|mother|is|still|live|and|has|attain|the
advanc|age|of|eightythre|year
rev|g|l|smith|acquir|his|preliminar|educ|in|the|public|school
and|afterward|pursu|his|studi|under|the|direct|of|rev|a|l|lind
ley|d|d|who|was|later|a|professor|in|the|presbyterian|theolog|semi
nari|of|san|francisco|he|was|also|a|student|of|union|colleg|of|schenec
tadi|new|york|is|a|graduat|of|the|new|york|univers|of|the|class|of
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|was|graduat|at|the|princeton|theolog|seminari|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five
be|a|classmat|of|rev|franci|l|patton|ll|d|s|stanhop|orri|ph
d|and|professor|raymond|d|d|all|of|princeton|univers|and|rev|e
t|jefif|d|d|presid|of|the|york|collegi|institut|mr|smith|was
licens|to|preach|by|the|second|presbyteri|of|new|york|and|was|ordain
by|the|presbyten|of|passaic|new|jersey|he|serv|as|the|pastor|of|ruther
ford|until|one|eighty-seven|one|when|he|receiv|a|call|from|the|church|in|ewe|new|jer
sey|where|he|remain|for|eight|year|he|then|went|to|cedarvill|this
state|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|remov|to|york|pennsyhania|he|found|but|one|pres
byterian|church|there|he|organ|a|new|church|the|calvari|presbi
terian|of|which|he|was|given|charg|on|the|17th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|there
was|rapid|growth|especi|in|the|sabbathschool|and|a|number|of|addi
tion|were|made|to|the|chapel|there|was|also|a|new|hous|of|worship
erect|and|a|mans|altogeth|make|a|group|of|build|which|stand
as|a|monument|to|the|devot|labor|of|rev|mr|smith|dure|his|pas
torat|the|membership|was|increas|from|twentyseven|to|about|three|hun
dred|and|while|activ|labor|in|york|was|at|the|same|time|instrument
in|suggest|and|institut|a|number|of|auxiliari|organ|on|the
1st|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|becam|pastor|of|a|presbyterian|church|in|elmer|where
he|has|sinc|done|effect|work
on|the|two|one|st|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|mr|smith|was|unit|in|the|holi|bond
of|matrimoni|with|carri|n|olden|of|princeton|new|jersey|who|die
august|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|leav|one|son|georg|e|who|is|now|in|the|newspap
busi|be|connect|with|the|york|daili|of|york|pennsylvania|on
the|5th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|smith|marri|sarah|g|scudder|a|daughter|of
dr|j|w|scudder|of|ewe|new|jersey|she|is|to|him|an|abl|assist
in|his|work|and|share|with|her|husband|the|high|regard|in|which|he|is|uni
versal|held
r
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|eighty-nine
rev|ir|smith|take|a|deep|interest|in|civic|and|government|aitair
and|believ|the|republican|parti|best|calcul|to|advanc|the|interest
of|the|nation|he|give|to|it|his|support|he|has|been|a|frequent|contributor
to|newspap|and|his|write|cover|a|varieti|of|subject|he|has|written
and|publish|two|serial|stori|and|mani|of|his|sermon|have|appear|in
lead|journal|for|some|year|he|was|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste
of|the|york|collegi|institut|for|a|while|vice|presid|of|the|board
and|for|some|time|the|secretari|of|the|execut|committe|he|is|a|man
of|scholar|attain|of|broad|general|inform|of|humanitarian|prin
cipl|and|of|kind|sympathi|his|discours|show|deep|thought|and|com
prehens|knowledg|and|his|relat|with|his|fellow|men|indic|a|true
icv|of|the|race|and|a|strong|desir|to|uplift|human|to|a|higher|plane|of
live
robert|gwynn
some|one|has|remark|that|the|artist|and|use|career|of|the|late
robert|gwynn|was|a|vindic|of|the|countri|editor|against|everi|charg
that|has|ever|been|laid|at|his|door|this|is|true|onli|as|it|call|attent
to|the|digniti|to|which|an|editor|may|attain|after|year|of|conscienti|labor
in|a|countri|citi|all|countri|editor|are|not|men|of|the|abil|and|ster
ling|worth|of|a|robert|gwynn|and|robert|gwynn|was|more|than|a|coun
tri|editor|he|was|a|thorough|journalist|of|the|best|metropolitan|train|of
his|day|transplant|to|the|environ|of|a|slowgrow|lawabid|littl
citi|who|gave|the|best|there|was|in|him|and|there|was|littl|that|was|not
good|and|health|and|progress|toward|the|advanc|of|all|of|the|best
interest|of|a|peopl|peculiar|upright|and|desennng|for|the|quaker|blood
that|anim|salem|and|give|color|to|it|social|and|commerci|charact|is
a|precious|heritag|robert|gwynn|s|success|can|not|aton|for|the|sin
of|omiss|and|commiss|of|which|the|averag|countri|editor|is|guilti
but|the|contempl|of|it|should|have|been|and|doubtless|was|a|mean|of
place|veri|mani|countri|editor|on|a|higher|plane|all|who|strive|to
emul|him|must|rememb|too|that|robert|gwynn|was|in|himself|more
to|his|town|than|his|paper|was|good|as|it|was|he|had|been|a|live|animat
ing|forc|in|salem|for|half|a|centuri|and|the|good|that|he|did|will|not|die
robert|gwynn|was|a|nativ|of|ireland|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|and|came|to|this
countr|at|the|age|of|thirteen|year|his|ancestor|were|welsh|antl|the
famili|is|associ|with|some|of|the|lead|famili|of|great|britain|the
gwynn|compani|of|london|and|londonderri|have|been|found|by
some|of|his|ancestor|he|first|set|eye|on|the|littl|town|of|salem|write
ninety|biograph|histori|of|the|first
j|h|c|appleg|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|dure|decemb|of|the|same|year
mr|gwynn|and|nathan|s|hale|both|young|men|and|philadelphia|printer
purchas|the|right|interest|and|titl|there|was|but|littl|els|to|buy|in|the
salem|sunbeam|then|own|and|publish|by|israel|well|escj|mr|well
was|not|a|practic|printer|and|the|simbeam|was|far|from|be|an|ideal
newspap|even|for|those|day|of|easygo|journalist|way|ell|had
establish|the|paper|here|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|sinc|which|time|it|had|been|go|from
lad|to|wors|sometim|appear|on|the|street|from|three|to|four|day|after
the|date|of|it|issu|and|sometim|miss|an|issu|altogeth|such|was
the|status|of|the|sunbeam|when|purchas|by|messr|gwynn|and|hale|late
graduat|of|the|ofific|of|the|pennsylvanian|of|philadelphia|a|paper|presid
over|in|part|by|that|superb|letter|writer|and|journalist|john|w|forn|the
copartnership|was|of|but|a|short|durat|and|in|a|brief|time|mr|gwynn
was|left|alon|to|wield|the|editori|pen|and|as|he|sometim|said|to|shoul
der|the|debt|the|public|may|gather|from|this|someth|of|the|earli|trial
of|the|sunbeam|publish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|and|judg|of|it|steadi|growth|sinc|the
sunbeam|has|now|been|so|long|befor|the|public|that|there|are|subscrib
all|oer|salem|counti|who|do|not|rememb|the|time|when|it|was|not|a
week|isitor|to|their|home|and|the|name|of|robert|gwynn|a|familiar
household|word|it|is|not|my|purpos|to|magnifi|the|work|of|mr|gwynn
or|the|charact|of|the|worker|but|as|the|sunbeam|has|been|so|insepar
a|part|of|it|publish|for|these|mani|year|it|is|imposs|to|divorc|the|one
from|the|other|the|person|of|the|editor|has|shone|out|in|the|written
sunbeam|everi|week|from|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|until|now|and|there|has|been|no
mistak|it
mr|gwynn|die|at|his|resid|in|salem|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|his|last
appear|in|the|town|was|at|the|poll|at|the|municip|elect|of|salem
six|day|befor|mr|appleg|who|was|with|him|on|that|day|state|that
he|did|not|hear|him|refer|to|the|elect|onc|until|about|half|past|three|when
he|enter|the|ofific|with|his|overcoat|tight|button|about|him|t|am
go|to|vote|he|said|and|then|in|lii|sententi|way|continu|get|on
your|coat|and|hat|and|go|with|me|but|i|interpos|mr|gwynn|let|me
order|a|carriag|and|but|he|stop|me|by|say|we|can|walk|it|all
right|so|arm|in|arm|we|walk|to|the|poll|perhap|threequart|of|a
mile|distant|where|he|deposit|his|last|vote|t|the|poll|he|was|greet
in|hearti|recognit|by|all|present|some|perhap|read|in|the|blanch
face|and|totter|step|the|sad|sequenc|so|soon|to|follow|on|leav|the
poll|a|friend|among|the|bystand|note|the|enfeebl|condit|of|mr
gwynn|volunt|his|servic|to|help|conduct|him|home|and|so|escort
between|us|tlie|sufter|editor|wearili|took|uj|his|homeward|way|that
congression|district|of|new|jersey|ninety-one
was|the|last|time|he|ever|pace|our|street|and|the|last|time|i|eer|saw|him
aliv
mr|gwynn|was|a|democrat|of|democrat|and|all|his|life|a|devot
discipl|of|the|jeffersonian|idea|of|polit|but|he|was|never|obtrusiveh|of
fensiv|in|their|assert|and|w|hile|he|render|valuabl|servic|to|his|parti
he|was|not|a|seeker|after|public|offic|he|was|howev|at|one|time|the|citi
treasur|of|salem|and|a|member|of|the|school|board|and|a|justic|of|the
peac|he|was|also|a|director|of|the|east|view|cemeteri|and|for|mani
year|a|promin|member|of|the|broadway|methodist|episcop|church|of
salem|for|mani|year|after|the|retir|of|mr|hale|mr|gwynn|was
in|full|charg|of|the|sunbeam|until|his|son|robert|gwynn|jr|now|the
mayor|of|salem|was|made|an|associ|editor|mr|gwynn|also|publish
a|paper|the|franklin|herald|at|aoodstown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|but|this|was|discon
tinu|after|a|few|month|mr|gwynn|held|the|theori|that|everi|man|is
the|peer|of|his|fellow|if|he|want|to|be|onc|a|gentleman|in|convers
with|him|use|the|phrase|best|peopl|in|a|sens|that|impli|aristocraci
do|not|mention|that|again|said|the|blunt|oul|editor|there|is|no|best|peo
ple|sa|e|as|they|make|themselv|such|fine|hous|fine|cloth|plenti|of
money|and|all|the|accessori|make|no|person|best|peopl|and|as|a|demo
crat|from|the|crown|of|my|head|to|the|sole|of|my|feet|i|recogn|no|such|dis
tinction|the|men|who|impro|their|opjortun|are|the|best|peopl|no
other|are
other|incid|of|like|import|might|be|mention|but|mr|gwynn|s
charact|is|suffici|indic|l|y|the|word|of|one|who|knew|him|well
and|long|his|ambit|was|to|publish|a|great|newspap|and|the|sun
beam|is|the|best|proof|of|his|success|in|that|direct|although|mingl|in
polit|all|these|year|he|never|stoop|to|what|is|known|as|corrupt|polit
maintain|even|in|this|an|honest|that|was|impregn|he|was|pure|in
all|his|habit|of|life|and|the|writer|who|has|been|a|close|associ|all|these
year|never|knew|him|to|use|a|profan|word|or|utter|a|deliber|falsehood
he|aljhor|both|in|all|his|life|he|was|a|model|of|upright|and|temper
habit
mr|gwynn|s|wife|was|mari|j|camp|befor|marriag|she|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five
ha|born|him|four|children|jenni|robert|jr|isabella|and|helen
one|of|the|sad|incid|of|his|death|was|the|absenc|of|his|son|robert
gwynn|jr|the|junior|editor|of|the|sunbeam|and|mayor|of|the|citi|of|salem
in|cuba|robert|gwynn|jr|who|has|for|some|year|carri|the|offic|re
sponsibl|of|the|newspap|enterpris|with|mani|other|on|his|shoulder
was|born|at|salem|new|jersey|novemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|and|was|graduat|atth
high|school|of|his|nativ|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|novemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|marri|miss
ninety-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
carri|rulon|a|daughter|of|john|c|rulon|the|cashier|of|the|nation|bank
of|swedesboro|xew|jersey|who|has|born|him|a|daughter|name|dorothi
immedi|upon|leav|school|he|identifi|himself|with|his|father|pub
lish|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|becam|a|partner|in|the|enterpris|for|the
past|fifteen|year|though|his|father|did|much|regular|work|on|the|paper|until
a|few|day|befor|his|death|the|son|has|been|the|nomin|and|respons
busi|editor|his|influenc|in|the|communiti|may|be|estim|when|it|is
state|that|he|was|for|four|year|a|member|of|the|board|of|educ|of|the
citi|of|salem|was|superintend|of|the|school|of|salem|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|to|the
fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|when|he|resign|and|was|for|three|success|term|one hundred and eighty-eight thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
the|counti|superintend|of|the|school|of|salem|counti|was|the|demo
cratic|nomine|for|state|senat|from|salem|counti|and|was|defeat|by|onli
ninetyf|vote|in|a|total|of|si|s|thousand|in|a|year|when|there|was|no|demo
crat|elect|in|the|state|and|when|he|came|nearer|elect|than|ani|other
and|was|elect|mayor|of|salem|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|to|fill|a|vacanc|caus|by|the
resign|of|his|predecessor|in|the|offic|and|was|reelect|for|a|full|term
a|year|later|by|a|major|of|two|hundr|and|fifteen|out|of|a|total|vote|of
one|thousand|three|hundr|and|fifti|over|two|oppos|candid|mr
g|ann|made|the|fight|for|the|mayoralti|chiefli|on|his|advocaci|of|good
road|it|is|his|content|that|the|citi|of|salem|has|been|backward|in
matter|of|public|improv|and|with|hard|persist|tireless|work|he
is|tri|to|put|it|in|advanc|of|other|enterpris|and|uptod|citi|he
is|make|headway|sure|but|slowli|and|gradual|and|believ|that|a
major|of|his|fellow|townsmen|will|endors|ever|aggress|step|he|may
take|toward|modern|the|town|and|impart|to|it|that|air|of|prosper
enterpris|which|character|near|all|american|citi|at|this|time|a
forc|writer|with|an|influenti|newspap|at|his|command|our|abl
speaker|who|never|lack|for|an|audienc|when|it|is|known|that|he|has|a
messag|to|deliv|to|the|peopl|a|planner|on|a|broad|scale|and|for|substan
tial|build|and|a|worker|who|never|rest|or|falter|he|is|sure|make
headway|against|the|apathi|of|some|of|his|richer|townsmen|and|under|his
guidanc|salem|has|enter|upon|a|period|of|develop|which|it|is|confi
dentli|believ|will|wit|mani|import|chang|that|will|be|influenti
toward|the|futur|prosper
mr|gwynn|s|democraci|is|of|the|same|sterl|stamp|as|was|his|father|s
he|has|almost|from|his|youth|been|activ|in|polit|work|and|has|been|a
deleg|to|mani|state|and|counti|convent|of|his|parti|and|chairman|of
the|democrat|counti|committe|and|member|of|import|state|commit
tee|and|has|alway|had|much|to|do|with|shape|parti|polici|and|measur
he|earli|becam|a|member|of|the|volunt|fire|depart|of|salem|he
coxgresslcn|district|of|xeif|jersey|ninety-three
is|a|member|of|the|pen|and|pencil|club|of|philadelphia|and|he|is|a|communi
can|not|and|has|sens|as|clerk|of|the|memori|baptist|church|of|salem|he
is|one|of|the|most|promin|citizen|of|salem|counti|and|the|larg|number
of|men|who|like|his|aggress|progress|idea|and|administr|believ
that|if|he|want|to|carri|his|work|into|futur|administr|he|can|be|re
elect|mayor|of|the|citi|of|salem|on|the|strength|of|what|he|has|accom
plish|and|is|accomplish
bextamix|f|ladd
benjamin|f|ladd|the|editor|and|proprietor|of|the|vineland|even
fournal|and|also|a|member|of|the|wellknown|firm|of|ladd|steel|dealer
in|real|estat|and|insur|was|born|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|in|appleton|wisconsin
a|son|of|harvey|hammond|and|lucinda|b|perri|ladd|the|preced
generat|of|the|famili|were|success|repres|by|samuel|ladd
john|david|jeremiah|cyrus|chester|and|harvey|samuel|the|founder
came|from|england|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-nine|and|settl|in|haverhil|massachusett|he
was|a|soldier|in|king|charl|s|armi|and|fought|against|cromwel|chester
ladd|the|grandfath|of|benjamin|f|was|born|in|burlington|xew|york
in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-five|subsequ|move|to|pennsylvania|and|then|to|rockford|illinoi
where|he|spent|the|rest|of|his|life|he|was|a|pioneer|farmer|of|rockford
and|serv|the|communiti|in|the|capac|of|preacher|his|wife|s|maiden
name|was|harriet|hammond
harvev|hammond|ladd|the|father|of|the|subject|of|this|narrat|was
born|may|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|in|burlington|new|york|after|spend|his|earli|life
there|in|the|neighborhood|of|burlington|green|he|remov|to|the|oil|dis
trict|of|pennsylvania|prior|to|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|befor|the|discoveri|of|oil|entitl|it|to
that|name|there|he|live|on|oil|creek|where|oil|citi|now|stand|and
taught|school|at|a|later|date|he|went|to|belvider|illinoi|where|he|learn
the|carpent|s|trade|from|that|place|he|move|to|appleton|wisconsin
then|a|mere|villag|and|becam|interest|in|lumber|deal|and|sawmil
a|man|of|veri|temper|habit|he|was|one|of|the|earli|member|of|the|son
of|temper|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|came|to|ineland|when|it|was|a|new|town|and
live|there|for|mani|year|in|the|cours|of|which|he|was|abl|to|render|effi
cient|servic|to|the|communiti|as|a|school|truste|he|went|to|chicago|or
a|suburb|of|that|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|die|there|in|the|year|follow|he|had
retir|from|the|activ|of|life|some|time|previous|his|intellectu|and
moral|qualiti|obtain|him|respect|wherev|he|went|besid|the|fill|of
the|offic|of|school|truste|he|also|serv|in|the|public|capac|of|alderman
ninety-four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
justic|of|the|peac|and|commission|of|deed|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|he|was|unit|in
marriag|to|miss|lucinda|d|perri|a|daughter|of|benjamin|f|and|alngail
newland|perri|sir|perri|s|father|was|a|revolutionari|soldier|and|a
cousin|of|commodor|perri|of|lake|eri|fame|mrs|harvey|h|ladd
who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|still|live|in|vineland
benjamin|f|ladd|receiv|the|foundat|of|his|educ|in|a|littl|vil
lage|name|stevensvill|where|the|famili|live|two|or|three|year|befor
go|to|appleton|he|also|attend|the|appleton|school|but|complet
his|cours|of|studi|at|the|vineland|high|school|his|busi|career|began
in|the|offic|of|the|ineland|week|where|he|learn|the|mechan|part
of|newspap|work|afterward|he|and|obert|spencer|who|was|in|the|same
ofifiic|purchas|the|aineland|journal|which|had|been|start|in|the|spring
of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|but|had|not|been|success|manag|one|year|later|mr|ladd
bought|out|his|partner|and|has|sinc|conduct|it|alon|at|it|incept
the|paper|had|a|veri|limit|circul|but|by|dint|of|hard|work|and|pers
veranc|it|now|has|a|fine|circul|for|a|town|of|this|size|it|is|not|onli
the|oldest|daili|now|publish|in|the|state|south|of|trenton|but|it|is|also
the|onlv|one|left|out|of|the|dozen|that|have|been|start|in|vineland|the
public|is|a|sixcolumn|folio|except|on|saturday|when|the|amount|of
read|matter|is|doubl|it|is|recogn|as|one|of|the|lead|newspap
in|southern|new|jersey|and|owe|to|it|larg|urban|and|suburban|circula
tion|it|is|deem|an|excel|advertis|medium
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|mr|ladd|ad|a|realest|and|insur|busi|to|his|other
interest|the|firm|name|was|ladd|spencer|until|the|death|of|the|latter
then|tlioma|b|steel|was|receiv|into|partnership|sinc|which|the|firm
has|been|known|as|ladd|steel|one|of|the|oldest|agenc|of|the|kind
it|repres|seven|promin|insur|compani|mr|ladd|was|one|of
the|organ|of|the|tradesman|s|bank|of|vineland|and|has|been|one|of
it|director|from|the|begin|he|erect|the|build|use|for|the
print|and|insur|busi|and|has|been|activ|interest|in|other
realest|busi|he|form|one|subdivis|divid|twentyf|acr
and|open|up|columbia|avenu|in|polit|he|has|alway|been|a|stanch
democrat|and|the|journal|has|reflect|his|sentiment|in|regard|to|parti
issu|he|is|not|an|aspir|to|polit|honor|for|quit|a|while|he|was
a|member|of|the|nation|guard|of|new|jersey|and|for|sever|year|the
presid|of|the|ineland|board|of|trade
on|novemb|27i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|ladd|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|julia
m|gifford|who|was|a|nativ|of|new|bedford|massachusett|her|father
chester|c|giford|a|contractor|and|builder|move|to|ineland|in|earli
manhood|mr|ladd|has|now|four|children|charl|franklin|georg
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|ninety-five
chester|mari|bell|and|edward|harvey|although|not|member|mr|and
mrs|ladd|most|frequent|attend|the|presbyterian|church|their|pleasant
home|at|the|corner|of|iandi|and|columbia|avenu|was|erect|by|mr
ladd
andrew|smith|reev
the|reev|famili|of|salem|counti|new|jersey|trace|their|ancestri
back|to|three|brother|who|emigr|from|england|about|17cx|and|locat
first|near|new|york|but|soon|remov|to|new|jersey|and|settl|in|what|is
now|gloucest|salem|and|cumberland|counti|the|first|record|of|descent
is|that|of|thoma|reev|born|in|cumberland|counti|februari|twenty-eight|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-eight
his|son|joshua|born|septemb|five|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|was|an|offic|in|the|revolutionari
war|die|june|2y|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|from|the|marriag|of|joshua|to|catherin|whit
aker|were|born|samuel|elizabeth|benjamin|stratton|thoma|joshua|and
catherin|twin|charl|and|harriet|and|maria|twin|by|a|second|wife
rachel|parim|he|had|two|children|william|garrison|and|abigail|mill
the|former|ijorn|june|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|die|in|bridgeton|new|jersey|in|the
autumn|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|be|one|of|the|last|surviv|son|of|a|revolutionari|sol
dier
thoma|reev|fourth|child|of|joshua|who|marri|eunic|bishop|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ten|remov|from|cumberland|counti|to|salem|short|after|his|marriag
and|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|remov|to|cincinnati|ohio|and|there|resid
perman|his|children|were|daniel|b|charl|b|georg|j|carolin
mari|joseph|t|john|b|horac|b|and|thoma|b|it|is|record|in|an
old|famil|bibl|that|eunic|the|wife|of|thoma|reev|began|to|read
her|bibl|through|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|and|finish|it|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|ten|day
after|complet|her|eightyfirst|year|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|charl|b|the
second|son|of|thoma|return|to|new|jersey|and|in|octob|of|the|same
year|marri|mari|s|smith|and|engag|in|farm|in|lower|alloway|creek
salem|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|he|remov|to|lower|penn|s|neck|salem|counti
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|to|elsinboro|where|he|occupi|one|of|his|father|s|farm|adjoin
ing|that|which|his|son|now|occupi|and|where|his|wife|die|he|die|on|a
farm|on|the|ouinton|road|near|salem|by|his|first|wife|his|children|were
eunic|who|die|at|the|age|of|three|year|andrew|smith|elizabeth|who
marri|william|h|h|carll|of|canton|new|jersey|and|thoma|born|in
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|snd|die|in|his|twentieth|year|by|a|second|wife|joanna|nee|stretch
his|children|were|j|morri|and|c|hildreth|he|was|marri|the|third|time
wed|amanda|sayer|and|by|this|union|one|child|was|born|who|was
name|vnna|s|and|is|live
ninety-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
andrew|smith|reev|a|son|of|charl|b|reev|and|mari|nee|smith
was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck|salem|counti|april|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|was|educ|in
the|public|school|of|this|counti|and|has|alway|follow|agricultur|pur
suit|when|about|three|year|old|he|went|to|live|with|his|grandpar
his|grandfath|die|in|i860|the|farm|was|bequeath|to|his|three|grand
children|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|mr|reev|becam|the|sole|owner
this|farm|upon|which|mr|reev|still|resid|one|of|the|finest|in|salem
counti|was|origin|a|part|of|the|fenwick|tract|and|was|first|obtain|by
samuel|nicholson|about|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|who|sold|it|to|georg|abbott|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-six|it
remain|in|the|possess|of|the|abbott|famili|until|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|when|it|pass
into|the|hand|of|david|stretch|later|to|andrew|smith|and|then|to|it
present|occup|the|origin|brick|hous|was|built|in|one thousand, seven hundred and four|an|addit
was|built|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four|and|it|was|remodel|by|mr|reev|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|it|stand|on
a|rise|of|ground|embow|in|tree|place|there|by|mr|reev|and|his
grandfath|in|the|lawn|is|a|giant|buttonwood|tree|a|relic|of|the|origin
forest|said|by|the|old|settler|to|have|been|a|big|tree|in|one hundred and eighty-one|one|it|now
measur|twentyon|feet|in|circumfer|at|it|base
mr|reev|is|not|onli|one|of|the|most|success|farmer|in|salem
counti|but|is|a|promin|factor|in|public|affair|and|take|an|activ|interest
in|all|that|concern|the|general|welfar|of|the|communiti|he|has|held
near|all|of|the|public|offic|of|elsinboro|township|was|elect|to|the
new|jersey|legislatur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|serv|two|term|and|was|treasur|of
salem|counti|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|in|everi|offici|posit|which|he|has
held|he|has|shown|mark|aliil|and|given|entir|satisfact|to|his|con
stituent
on|februari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|mr|reev|was|marri|to|mari|s|mulford|of
lower|alloway|creek|this|counti|they|have|had|seven|children|charl
b|anna|l|richard|m|abner|s|thoma|b|c|loren|and|archi|blain
charl|b|die|decemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|at|the|age|of|ten|year
hon|a|h|slape
new|jersey|has|alway|been|distinguish|for|the|high|rank|of|her|bench
and|bar|perhap|no|state|can|just|boast|of|abler|jurist|and|attorney
mani|of|them|have|been|men|of|nation|fame|and|among|those|whose|live
have|been|pass|on|a|quieter|plane|there|is|scarc|a|town|or|citi|in|the
state|but|can|boast|of|one|or|more|lawyer|capabl|of|cross|sword|in
forens|combat|with|ani|of|the|distinguish|legal|light|of|the|unit
state|while|the|growth|and|develop|of|the|state|in|the|last|half|cen
congression|district|of|new|jersey|ninety-seven
turv|has|been|most|manel|view|from|ani|standpoint|yet|of|no|one
class|of|her|citizenship|has|she|greater|reason|for|just|pride|than|her|judg
and|attorney|the|gentleman|whose|name|introduc|this|review|held
preced|among|the|promin|legal|practition|of|his|section|of|the
state|he|possess|perhap|few|of|those|brilliant|dazzl|meteor|quali
tie|which|have|sometim|flash|along|the|legal|horizon|rivet|the|gaze
and|blind|the|vision|for|a|moment|then|disappear|leav|littl|or|no
trace|behind|but|rather|had|those|solid|and|more|substanti|qualiti
which|shine|with|a|constant|luster|shed|light|in|the|dark|place|with
steadi|and|continu|his|mind|was|analyt|logic|and|induct
with|a|thorough|and|comprehens|knowledg|of|the|fundament|principl
of|law|he|combin|a|familiar|with|statutori|law|and|a|sober|clear|judg
ment|which|render|him|a|power|in|the|courtroom
mr|slape|was|born|in|philadelphia|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|a|son|of|wil
liam|and|susan|mangin|slape|his|father|was|an|agriculturist|and|oper
ate|a|farm|in|the|vicin|of|salem|where|his|last|day|were|pass|he|was
one|of|the|lead|citizen|of|jiannington|township|and|was|a|man|of|recog
nize|busi|abil|in|religi|belief|he|was|a|methodist|and|took|an
activ|part|in|the|work|of|the|church|in|which|he|held|membership|in|his
famili|were|six|children|name|albert|h|william|who|was|a|farmer
harri|who|was|a|lawyer|of|note|and|at|one|time|sere|as|mayor|of|atlant
citi|new|jersey|newton|harriet|wife|of|rev|william|mark|of|wash
ton|d|c|and|susan|who|is|the|onli|survivor|of|the|famili|and|marri
illiam|h|thompson|of|salem
albert|h|slape|acquir|his|preliminari|educ|in|the|public|school
of|salem|later|pursu|his|studi|in|the|pennington|seminari|and|was|grad
uat|with|honor|in|dickinson|colleg|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|enter|the
offic|of|tlieodor|cuyler|of|philadelphia|he|studi|law|under|the|direct
of|that|emin|attorney|until|his|admiss|to|the|bar|of|philadelphia|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|he|was|admit|to|practic|at|the|new|jersey|bar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|open
ing|an|ofific|in|salem|he|enter|upon|a|practic|which|grew|to|extens
proport|and|assum|a|veri|import|charact|for|a|period|of|twenti
five|year|he|was|the|prosecut|attorney|for|salem|and|five|year|for|at
lantic|counti|discharg|his|duti|in|a|high|credit|manner|he|was
veri|care|and|painstak|in|the|prepar|of|case|thorough|and|exact
in|his|legal|research|and|befor|court|and|juri|was|a|most|logic|and|con
vinc|speaker|he|gain|a|larg|clientel|and|his|practic|embrac|a
connect|with|some|of|the|most|import|litig|tri|in|the|court|of
his|district
mr|slape|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|maria|josephin|boon|a|daugh
loo|biograph|histori|of|the|first
her|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|is|a|truck|farmer|live|on|the|old|homestead|he|was
marri|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|to|sarah|e|crim|by|whom|he|has|six|children
mari|e|born|novemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|laura|born|septemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|hanc
born|novemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|ralph|born|may|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|warren|born
decemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|paul|born|april|three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|their|father|is|a|member
of|the|board|of|educ|and|is|senior|warden|in|st|georg|s|episcop
church|sarah|maria|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|was|marri|septemb|one|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|to
j|wesley|spark|a|farmer|of|her|nativ|township|l|y|whom|she|has|four
children|josephin|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|elizabeth|d|born|decemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine
charl|wesley|born|septemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|harvey|born|april|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six
josephin|was|born|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|on|the|28th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
marri|georg|h|biddl|a|farmer|of|upper|penn|s|neck|township
thoma|t|the|youngest|son|of|the|famili|is|the|immedi|subject|of|this
review|the|father|die|june|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|the|mother|on|the|loth|of
april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|at|the|advanc|age|of|seventyeight|year|they|were|well
and|favor|known|and|were|high|respect|by|their|neighbor
thoma|t|jaquett|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|his|nati|town
ship|but|left|school|at|the|age|of|seventeen|to|learn|the|trade|of|stone|cutter
at|camden|this|state|he|remain|there|three|year|and|then|work
as|a|jouneyman|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|he|purchas|the|marbl|shop|of|e|h
robbin|at|salem|and|with|his|brother|peter|conduct|the|busi|for
three|year|when|peter|withdrew|and|our|subject|continu|alon|his
steadili|increas|trade|made|it|necessari|to|enlarg|his|store|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
he|erect|a|larg|build|which|is|fortyf|feet|in|frontag|and|one|hun
dred|feet|in|depth|give|him|great|increas|facil|for|handl|his
good|he|handl|all|kind|of|marbl|from|ornament|marbl|to|flagston
he|has|met|with|flatter|success|and|has|done|a|great|deal|of|work|in|the
surround|countr|have|been|employ|on|the|soldier|s|monument|at
camden|and|on|the|stone|work|on|the|ailmington|court|hous|and|citi
hall|at|camden
mr|jaquett|was|marri|octob|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|to|miss|mari|dare|a|daugh
ter|of|georg|and|phoeb|a|mattison|dare|of|cumberland|counti|their
marriag|has|been|bless|by|the|birth|of|five|children|efifi|born|septem
ber|2j|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|georg|dare|born|novemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|franc|born|april
four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|josephin|bom|decemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|robert|kitt|born|may
twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|like|his|long|line|of|illustri|ancestor|mr|jaquett|is|promi
nent|in|st|georg|s|episcop|church|where|he|has|been|secretari|for|six
year|and|a|member|of|the|vestri|mani|year|more|and|is|one|of|the|most
wide|popular|men|of|the|counti
congressrox|district|of|xeir|jersey|loi
georg|dare
the|histori|of|the|dare|famili|which|until|late|was|so|littl|known
that|the|bridgeton|and|greenwich|branch|could|not|trace|their|ancestri
turn|out|like|that|of|other|descend|of|adam|to|be|a|long|account
the|lrst|authent|mention|that|can|be|found|is|obtain|in|alacaulay|s
histor|of|england|which|give|the|particular|of|the|kill|of|thoma
dare|who|was|engag|in|the|duke|of|monmouth|s|invas|in|ituss|the
direct|ancestor|of|the|salem|branch|of|the|famili|was|captain|william|dare
who|built|the|first|hous|in|philadelphia|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|it|was|known|as|the
blue|anchor|tavern|and|there|avilliam|penn|was|entertain|when|he
brought|his|colonv|to|the|state|which|was|afterward|name|in|his|honor
the|next|vear|captain|dare|sold|his|properti|in|philadelphia|and|purchas
land|of|the|new|jersey|societi|at|nantuxit|now|newport|where|he|live
until|his|death|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-one|he|live|an|activ|and|nobl|life|and|becam
owner|of|much|properti|in|differ|part|of|the|countri|he|had|three
son|william|robert|and|benoni|and|three|daughter|one|of|whom|mar
rie|jeremiah|nixon|all|of|his|children|had|marri|and|left|larg|fanuli
and|all|were|prosper|peopl
william|dare|the|first|is|design|in|his|first|api|ointment|as|sherift
of|salem|counti|as|captain|william|dare|marin|he|was|the|first
sheriff|of|salem|counti|under|the|crown|have|been|appoint|by|lord
cornburv|inunedi|after|the|give|up|of|their|right|by|the|proprietor
in|one|seven hundred and four|he|was|reappoint|a|fact|which|indic|that|his|servic|was
satisfactori|he|was|afterward|made|associ|judg|and|justic|of|the
peac|and|was|a|militari|offic|of|the|train|band|or|militia|he|was|also|a
chosen|freehold|and|in|one|capac|or|anoth|was|almost|constant
engag|in|public|busi|his|will|a|copi|of|which|is|now|in|possess
of|mrs|thoma|t|jaquett|show|that|he|was|a|nativ|of|dorsetshir|or
somersetshir|as|he|leff|real|and|person|properti|at|lyme|where|thoma
dare|was|land|by|the|expedit|at|yawl|near|taunton|where|thoma
had|rais|forti|horsemen|for|servic|in|the|duke|of|monmouth|s|command
this|inventori|is|interest|as|show|a|glimps|of|affair|two|hundr
year|ago|he|appear|as|a|hearti|practic|activ|abl|and|respons
person|a|care|and|tender|husband|and|father|and|the|veri|ideal|of|a
pioneer|not|onli|abl|to|conduct|his|own|affair|success|but|with
enough|brain|to|do|great|servic|to|the|communiti|he|left|a|remark
famili|each|member|of|it|be|the|owner|of|mani|broad|acr|upon|which
each|rais|a|larg|famili|and|becam|the|head|of|an|extens|number
of|descend|at|the|present|day
i02|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|eldest|son|william|seem|probabl|to|have|been|the|best|care|for
after|the|english|fashion|at|least|he|was|left|all|the|properti|in|the|old|coun
tri|he|live|and|die|at|indian|field|near|bridgeton|cumberland|counti
where|he|own|a|larg|tract|of|valuabl|land|includ|cedar|swamp|land
and|water|power|this|homestead|which|was|in|possess|of|the|famili
continu|until|a|few|year|ago|is|delight|situat|on|the|hill|over
look|a|run|near|which|he|had|a|store|a|mill|cooper|millwright|and
blacksmith|shop|and|probabl|other|busi|interest|for|the|place|was
a|greater|busi|center|than|bridgeton|at|that|time|but|navig|at
bridgeton|left|indian|field|desert|there|is|extant|an|old|daybook
kept|there|by|a|dare|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|daretown|was|name|in|honor|of|this|famili
benjamin|dare|the|son|of|benoni|was|the|grandfath|of|georg|dare
whose|name|introduc|this|record|he|becam|a|promin|man|and
success|carri|on|busi|as|a|builder|and|auction|he|wed
mari|shepard|a|granddaught|of|rev|job|shepard|his|birth|occur
in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four|and|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|samuel|dare|the|father|of|our|subject
was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|and|loyal|serv|his|countri|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|his
death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|he|wed|nanci|barker|and|they
becam|the|parent|of|ten|children|benjamin|elizabeth|rachel|l|illiam
t|maiy|samuel|m|rebecca|b|georg|sarah|and|maria
georg|dare|the|subject|of|this|review|was|bom|in|bridgeton|decem
ber|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|marri|phebe|mattison|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|they|had|three
children|benjamin|a|born|januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|jame|b|born|may|thirty
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|and|mari|d|novemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|the|mother|die|in|decemb
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|mr|dare|aftenvard|wed|margaret|kiger|for|thirti|year
mr|dare|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|but|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|has|resid|in
salem|and|is|engag|in|deal|in|pump|piano|and|organ|his|politi
cal|support|was|given|to|the|whig|parti|in|earli|life|and|afterward|he
vote|with|the|republican|partv|but|is|now|a|prohibitionist
fact|and|fanci|concern|the|leak
genealog|item|have|alway|lieen|of|interest|to|the|age|init|in|the
present|day|the|subject|engag|the|attent|of|men|and|women|in|the|midst
of|life|s|busiest|jjeriod|even|the|children|unlik|most|of|those|of|earlier
generat|deem|ancestor|to|be|of|import|this|is|the|token|of
better|work|in|the|futur|too|nianv|dure|the|more|than|two|centuri|of
congressfohil|district|of|xejv|jersey|one hundred and three
famili|life|in|this|countri|have|reach|the|point|of|inquisit|in|this
regard|onli|to|realiz|that|those|who|onc|could|have|told|them|have|gone
into|the|silent|land
these|fact|and|fanci|relat|to|the|leak|are|therefor|here|set|down
trust|they|will|be|help|to|some|of|the|branch|and|suggest|line|of
investig|that|may|lead|to|a|more|complet|paper|in|the|year|to|come
the|name|of|leak|has|not|been|unknown|or|unhonor|in|england
it|is|said|that|owe|to|the|lack|of|male|repres|the|titl|final
laps|it|was|bestow|in|recent|year|upon|alfr|tennyson|the|poet
william|martin|leak|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|die|januari|six|i860|a|lieuten
colonel|in|the|british|armi|and|a|travel|and|writer|has|contribut|much
to|our|knowledg|of|the|ancient|and|modern|geographi|the|histori|and
antiqu|of|greec|henrj|hoek|or|hook|who|went|to|england|from
wesel|chang|his|name|to|leek|to|his|philanthrop|bequest|south
wark|owe|the|foundat|of|the|excel|free|school|of|st|olav|s|one
of|the|best|of|it|class|there|was|a|flemish|painter|van|hoek|or|hoeck
born|about|the|begin|of|the|seventeenth|centuri|who|may|have|been
of|the|leak|famili
tradit|say|that|recompens|leak|the|ancestor|of|the|new|jersey
leak|was|a|descend|of|the|puritan|who|land|on|plymouth|rock
massachusett|but|the|name|is|not|in|the|list|of|passeng|who|came|in
the|mayflow|of|one thousand, six hundred and twenty|the|fortun|of|one thousand, six hundred and twenty-one|the|ann|and|littl|jame|of
one thousand, six hundred and twenty-three|it|may|have|been|that|his|truli|blue|forbear|was|on|the|matern
side|but|it|has|been|notic|that|a|certain|john|hook|was|among|the
compani|on|the|mayflow|this|fact|may|or|may|not|be|of|valu|in|con
nection|with|the|preced|paragraph
a|patern|line|of|a|more|recent|import|mav|be|the|sourc|of|the
name|one|of|less|rigid|view|whose|critic|may|have|warp|his|son|s
mind|for|the|record|written|by|isaac|whitak|esq|of|deerfield|new|jer
sey|a|copi|in|the|possess|of|mrs|carolin|w|van|meter|of|salem
read|becom|dissatisfi|with|the|law|and|regul|of|the|new|eng
land|colonist|he|move|to|long|island|where|he|resid|mani|year|and
accumul|much|properti|it|may|have|been|on|account|of|his|health
for|the|air|of|plymouth|is|malari|to|step|upon|a|materi|rock|after|the
weari|sway|passag|must|have|been|as|great|a|satisfact|to|the|pil
grim|of|sixteen thousand, two hundred and three|ss|it|is|to|the|later|pilgrim|who|journey|there|to|worship|at
the|shrine|of|the|past|but|when|one|see|the|grae|that|so|earli|dot|the
hillsid|it|is|to|wish|the|land|had|been|at|a|more|invigor|spot|even
if|less|allur|to|the|eye
i04|biograph|histori|of|the|first
he|afterward|settl|on|dan|rier|north|carolina|where|he|buri
his|wife|and|sever|of|his|children|leav|that|section|he|came|to|new
jersey|in|a|sloop|land|at|greenwich|cumberland|counti|now|call
where|he|sold|his|sloop|he|went|to|deerfield|and|purchas|a|larg|tract
of|land|of|the|west|jersey|proprietor|on|which|he|settl|himself|and|his
follow|name|son|viz|john|leak|samuel|leak|recompens|leak
nathan|leak
he|marri|a|second|time|the|widow|of|jeremiah|miller|by|whom|he
had|three|daughter|sarah|rachel|and|hannah|sarah|and|hannah|die
unmarri|rachel|leak|marri|ambros|whitak|or|car|octob|five
one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|see|whitak|and|van|meter|ancestr|note
mrs|harriet|van|meter|cone|of|salem|new|jersey|contribut|the
follow|in|regard|to|john|georg|leak|a|descend|of|recompens
leak|whose|undevis|estat|creat|so|much|excit|more|than|half|a
centuri|ago
about|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|or|thirty-five|john|georg|leak|a|wealthi|bachelor|lawyer|of
new|york|citi|adopt|an|orphan|boy|by|the|name|of|watt|intend
after|the|complet|of|his|educ|and|his|arriv|at|twentyon|year|of
age|to|have|his|name|chang|to|leak|by|the|state|legislatur|mr|leak
made|a|will|devis|his|estat|to|young|watt|on|those|condit|his
death|was|veri|short|follow|by|the|death|of|young|watt|and|befor
he|had|reach|his|major|the|will|made|no|arrang|for|this|con
tingenc|or|ani|other|disposit|of|his|estat|the|fact|were|advertis
such|as|could|claim|relationship|were|request|by|the|court|to|present
their|claim|tire|onli|clue|which|could|be|gain|was|from|the|remark
heard|from|him|in|life|that|his|nearest|relat|in|this|countri|were|an|old
coupl|by|the|name|of|leak|in|south|jersey|with|whom|he|did|not|seem
to|have|had|ani|intercours
mr|isaac|whitak|whose|mother|was|a|leak|was|deput|to|visit
new|york|citi|present|the|leak|claim|and|gain|the|estat|if|possibl|he
fail|howev|to|substanti|the|relationship|the|properti|went|to|the
commonwealth|the|legislatur|at|albani|decid|to|invest|the|avail|of
the|estat|in|found|an|institut|for|orphan|boy|land|was|purchas
near|new|york|citi|a|build|erect|an|organ|form|and|the
leak|and|watt|asylum|for|orphan|boy|has|faith|perform|it
mission|the|citi|of|new|york|howev|in|make|it|rapid|stride|soon
encircl|the|asylum|and|it|ground|the|land|becam|veri|valuabl|the
corpor|about|to|erect|the|cathedr|of|st|john|made|an|ofter|for|the
site|which|was|accept|and|the|leak|and|watt|asylum|for|orphan|boy
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and five
was|remov|to|a|new|locat|near|yonker|where|it|is|still|in|oper
mrs|mar|p|evan|of|white|gabl|maryland|claim|to|be|a|de
scendant|of|recompens|leak|who|she|state|was|the|first|of|the|famili|to
come|to|america|she|is|report|to|have|said|one|of|the|four|son|of
recompens|leak|was|jame|my|greatgrandfath|one|of|the|four
brother|was|robert|scarsdal|the|father|of|john|georg|leak|the|million
air|while|recompens|leak|was|resid|on|his|farm|now|known|as|ho
boken|his|son|jame|left|him|and|went|to|marjdand|where|he|marri|a
cathol|ladi|one|child|jame|was|my|father|s|father|he|die|in|ken
tucki|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|his|children|were|mari|martin|leak|jame|leak|john
leak|richard|leak|nelli|leak|william|leak|my|father|ignatius
leak|and|raphael|leak|the|heir|of|richard|are|numer|and|are
locat|in|north|carolina|georgia|etc|while|the|heir|of|jame|are|to|be
found|in|missouri|kentucki|and|maryland
it|was|alway|maintain|by|mr|isaac|miitak|that|the|estat|of|john
georg|leak|right|belong|to|the|south|jersey|famili|but|that
the|record|had|been|in|the|keep|of|the|garrison|branch|in|deerfield
who|had|thoughtless|destroy|some|necessari|link|in|the|chain|of|genea
logic|proof
take|up|the|line|of|the|four|son|who|accompani|recompens|leak
to|deerfield|new|jersey|the|first|name|is|john|who|die|without|issu|in
deerfield|at|the|age|of|ninetysix|year|he|is|spoken|of|as|a|man|who
love|the|gospel|the|name|of|leak|is|the|first|mention|of|those|who
were|earliest|in|the|record|of|the|presbyterian|church|at|that|place|religi
servic|are|suppos|to|date|from|about|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two
samuel|a|son|of|recompens|leak|ist|die|in|deerfield|new|jersey
leav|five|children|samuel|levi|aaron|lewi|and|mari|aaron|and
lewi|left|no|children|samuel|jr|was|born|in|deerfield|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight|elmer|s
reminisc|of|the|bench|and|bar|state|that|he|graduat|at|princeton
in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-four|was|licens|as|an|attorney|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|and|afterward|was|a|counselor
and|sergeant|he|settl|first|at|salem|but|remov|to|trenton|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five
where|he|resid|until|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|he|is|describ|as|have|a|high
reput|for|accur|legal|knowledg|of|the|most|sterl|integr|and
be|probabl|more|general|employ|in|suprem|court|case|than|ani
other|lawyer|he|was|an|earnest|sincer|christian|belong|to|the|pres
byterian|church|of|great|simplic|of|charact|and|minut|exact|even
in|the|most|trifl|matter|he|left|sever|daughter|one|of|whom|marri
the|rev|dr|slack|of|cincinnati|ohio|levi|leak|the|second|son|of
samuel|sr|live|and|die|in|deerfield|leav|two|son|and|one|daughter
io6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
samuel|lewi|mari|the|onli|daughter|of|samuel|leak|sr|lari|mar
rie|jonathan|garrison|there|were|three|son|charl|lewi|and|samuel
leak
recompens|leak|a|son|of|recompens|ist|live|and|die|in|deerfield
he|left|five|children|abraham|jeremiah|joseph|jemima|elizabeth|abra
ham|a|presbyterian|minist|die|without|issu|dure|the|war|of|the|revo
lution|jeremiah|left|three|children|recompens|ruth|sarah|joseph
and|elizabeth|never|marri|jemima|marri|charl|averi|of|cincinnati
ohio|and|left|sever|children
nathan|leak|son|of|recompens|leak|ist|live|and|die|in|deer
field|leav|nine|children|eleanor|ami|phebe|rachel|david|nathan
ephraim|rebecca|ruth|eleanor|marri|john|stratton|esq|and|had|four
children|john|gilbert|nathan|levi|ami|die|unmarri|phebe|mar
rie|william|garrison|esq|of|deerfield|no|children|mlliam|garrison
was|marri|the|second|time|to|ruth|leak|there|were|four|son
charl|georg|v|edmund|amo|f|charl|was|a|physician|marri
hannah|fithian|and|final|settl|in|swedesboro|their|son|dr|joseph
fithian|garrison|was|associ|with|his|father|in|practic|the|latter|how
ever|gave|up|medicin|for|the|studi|of|divin|becom|rector|of|st|paul|s
protest|episcop|church|of|camden|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|his|son
charl|grant|garrison|of|camden|is|one|of|the|justic|of|the|suprem
court|of|new|jersey|georg|w|garrison|settl|in|salem|at|his|death
he|was|the|presid|of|the|salem|nation|bank|compani|he|was
twice|marri|and|left|two|children|hedg|t|and|louisa|edmund|garri
son|s|home|was|in|swedesboro|he|had|a|famili|of|children|amo|t
garrison|graduat|as|a|lawyer|and|went|to|missouri|rachel|leak|a
daughter|of|nathan|marri|amo|fithian|their|children|were|joseph
joel|charl|and|hannah|joseph|settl|in|woodlniri|where|he|was|a
success|physician|he|marri|first|harriet|stratton|and|for|the|second
time|esther|g|cattel|there|were|two|children|of|the|latter|marriag
josephin|and|salli|g|the|latter|die|in|her|youth|and|the|former|mar
rie|rev|edward|w|hitchcock|d|d|then|pastor|of|the|american|chapel
in|pari|franc|now|of|philadelphia|joel|fithian|marri|sarah|sinnick
son|of|salem|new|jersey|they|remov|to|ohio|and|had|two|son|and
three|daughter|david|leak|a|son|of|nathan|marri|hannah|shute|and
they|had|four|children|mari|william|david|and|phebe|nathan|leak|a
son|of|nathan|marri|ruth|garrison|he|settl|in|millvill|new|jersey
and|left|a|larg|famili|ephraim|leak|a|son|of|nathan|die|without|issu
and|the|compil|of|this|articl|has|no|inform|respect|rebecca|leak
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and seven
the|reev|famili
the|name|of|reev|has|been|long|and|promin|connect|with|the
hitorv|of|cape|may|counti|but|the|account|of|the|estabhsh|of|the
familv|in|new|jersey|is|uncertain|it|is|believ|howev|that|the|hrs
the|name|who|settl|in|cape|may|counti|were|three|brother|sadomjah
braham|and|biiah|who|came|from|cumberland|counti|m|the|year|seventeen
o|ttst|o|pnl|y|adomiau|reev|marri|miss|molli|golhfer|who
die|on|the|17th|of|april|follow|and|on|the|21st|of|februari|seven hundred and eighty-one|he
wed|marv|bellengi|two|son|aaron|and|jame|were|born|to|them
the|mother|die|novemb|thirty|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|and|adonijah|reev|was|marn|a
third|time|his|last|union|be|with|drusilla|hand|the|weddmg|takmg
place|novemb|is|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|they|had|a|son|and|two|daughter|jerem|ah
pouv|and|ruth|adonijah|reev|ded|februari|eight|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|hs|children
subsequentlv|die|leav|no|descend|you
biiah|reev|anoth|of|the|three|brother|mention|abov|was|born
in|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|and|came|to|cape|may|com
about|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|he|did|not|marri|until|his|fiftieth|year|when|he|wed|miss
mercv|hand|of|cape|mav|counti|they|had|four|son|and|two|daughter
abraham|david|andrew|h|joshua|h|sarah|and|merci|the|last|name
die|in|infanc|the|father|was|a|soldier|in|the|revolutionari|war|and|was
also|a|memb|of|captain|joshua|townsend|s|compani|of|militia|m|the|vvar|of
one hundred and eighty-one|that|companv|consist|of|brave|and|hardi|men|mure|to|toil|and
fearless|of|danger|the|stori|of|the|hardship|they|endur|now|seem|al
most|incred|but|were|then|stern|realiti|and|the|countri|wi|one|ever|owe|to
them|a|deep|debt|of|gratitud|abijah|reev|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|at|the|age|of|sev
entytwo|and|his|wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|both
were|buri|in|the|cold|spring|graveyard
braham|reev|the|eldest|son|of|abijah|and|merci|reev|was|born
in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|octob|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and two|and|at|the|age|of
twentyf|was|marri|to|miss|eliza|widdefield|with|whom|he|live|happili
until|die|6th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|wlen|they|were|separ|by|the|death|of
the|wife|on|the|3rd|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|he|marri|miss|manah|jame|a
most|estim|ladi|of|dennisvill|new|jersey|with|whom|he|live|to|the
time|of|his|death|he|was|a|man|of|fine|physiqu|six|feet|in|height|and|of
robust|frame|he|also|possess|a|live|and|humor|disposit|and|in
this|respect|never|grew|old|he|was|the|embodi|of|that|merri|heart
which|is|a|continu|feast|he|was|fond|of|young|societi|and|young|peo
ple|deliht|to|have|him|with|them|for|he|enter|into|then|game|and
io8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
amus|with|almost|childlik|zeal|and|enthusiasm|he|was|familiar
and|love|known|throughout|the|counti|as|uncl|abe|be|so|call
by|young|and|old|he|was|generous|and|oblig|to|a|fault|often|contribut
ing|of|his|time|and|money|to|the|comfort|and|relief|of|the|sick|and|needi
he|was|a|man|of|more|than|ordinari|abil|of|broad|mind|and|public|spirit
possess|a|retent|memori|and|was|a|great|reader|be|especi|fond
of|histori|and|biographi|his|earli|opportun|for|acquir|an|educa
tion|were|veri|limit|both|for|want|of|mean|and|of|avail|school|he
attend|school|but|littl|and|for|onli|tjire|month|when|he|could|studi
arithmet|notwithstand|his|limit|advantag|his|scholar|attain
ment|were|not|inconsider|and|this|togeth|with|his|sound|judgment
and|strict|integr|caus|his|advic|and|servic|to|be|frequent|sought
by|his|fellow|citizen|at|the|time|of|his|death|although|he|was|eightytwo
year|of|age|he|was|serv|his|second|term|as|lay|judg|of|the|court|of|com
mon|plea|of|his|counti|he|was|also|judg|of|elect|in|lower|township
and|sere|as|such|for|twenti|consecut|year|he|was|a|sundayschool
superintend|and|rule|elder|in|the|cold|spring|presbyterian|church|of
which|he|was|a|consist|member|regular|attend|it|servic|for|more
than|forti|year|he|was|also|the|chairman|of|the|cape|lay|counti|bibl
societi|of|the|cape|alay|counti|sundayschool|associ|of|the|farmer
and|mechan|debat|societi|and|of|the|mechan|build|loan
associ|he|serv|also|as|a|chosen|freehold|township|committeeman
and|in|other|local|posit|his|well|known|reliabl|and|probiti|led|to|his
select|to|settl|the|estat|of|mani|deced|and|to|act|as|the|guardian
of|minor|children|he|was|faith|to|everi|trust|and|no|thought|of|sus
picion|was|ever|breath|against|him|in|polit|he|was|a|nativ|american
then|an|oldlin|whig|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|he|was|elect|to|the|general
assembl|of|new|jersey|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|was|return|to|serv|anoth|term
and|this|notwithstand|there|were|three|parti|in|the|field|and|the|old
whig|parti|was|fast|disintegr|and|be|embodi|in|the|new|repub
lican|parti
at|the|break|out|of|the|rebellion|he|took|an|activ|part|in|the|rais
of|troop|and|equip|them|for|the|front|his|were|alway|word|of|hearti
cheer|to|the|boy|and|again|and|again|in|address|them|he|would|say
stand|by|the|union|right|along|in|the|summer|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|although|more
than|sixti|year|of|age|he|went|to|bever|new|jersey|with|a|compani|of
volunt|from|his|counti|and|with|them|ofyer|his|servic|to|the
govern|but|was|refus|on|account|of|his|age|he|then|join|the
christian|commiss|procur|a|pass|and|went|to|the|front|where|he
care|for|the|sick|and|wound|without|pay|or|profit|of|ani|kind|except
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and nine
the|gratitud|of|those|wliom|he|comfort|and|rehev|he|was|alway|and
everywher|uncl|abe|to|all|of|them|he|die|may|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|and|was
buri|in|the|cold|spring|graeyard|upon|his|tombston|is|the|follow
inscript|then|abraham|die|in|a|good|old|age|an|old|man|and|full|of
year|and|was|gather|to|his|peopl
david|and|andrew|reev|second|and|third|son|of|abijah|and|merci
reev|were|twin|they|were|born|in|cape|may|counti|new|jersey
april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and five|their|resembl|to|each|other|was|most|remark|so
much|so|that|in|infanc|a|blue|ribbon|was|tie|and|kept|upon|the|arm|of|one
of|them|by|the|mother|herself|that|she|might|not|mistak|them|this|strik
ing|like|last|all|through|life|it|was|not|alon|in|person|appear
but|their|voic|also|were|as|much|alik|in|sound|as|their|featur|and|statur
muse|instanc|of|mistak|made|by|parti|do|busi|with|or|for
one|would|often|be|report|to|the|other|and|the|parti|make|the|mistak
was|general|left|to|discov|it|himself|some|day|later|tliey|were|men|of
well|built|and|power|frame|six|feet|in|height|erect|and|well|proport
they|were|of|activ|habit|energet|and|persev|of|good|judgment|and
busi|tact|progress|and|publicspirit|they|encourag|and|cheer
fulli|aid|everi|enterpris|calcul|either|to|improv|the|neighborhood
or|to|benefit|the|labor|class|by|provid|work|for|them|they|were
honest|in|all|their|deal|with|their|fellow|men|and|said|what|they|had
to|say|in|plain|unmistak|english|charit|and|benevol|they|were
good|friend|to|the|poor|and|oblig|to|all|as|in|their|babyhood|so|all
though|life|they|were|seen|togeth|their|busi|was|in|partnership|their
purchas|and|possess|joint|unfeign|brother|love|was|never|more
mark|than|in|these|men|their|soul|were|truli|knit|togeth|in|the|earli
year|of|their|busi|career|they|were|larg|engag|in|vessel|build
also|in|move|hous|and|in|get|off|wteck|and|strand|vessel|from
the|beach|and|in|save|their|cargo|and|crew|a|danger|task|ofttim
andrew|was|for|mani|year|the|captain|of|the|lifesav|crew|at|cape|may
point|they|also|cultiv|larg|farm|engag|in|merchandis|and|thus
furnish|employ|to|mani|workmen|they|were|alway|energet|and
could|toler|no|idl|hand|about|them|yet|they|were|not|hard|taskmast
they|were|both|member|of|and|rule|elder|in|the|cold|spring|church
and|were|deepli|interest|alik|in|it|tempor|and|spiritu|welfar|they
gave|liber|of|their|time|servic|and|mean|to|it|support|and|exemplifi
in|their|daili|live|their|christian|belief
david|reev|was|marri|april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|on|the|twentyfirst|anniv
sari|of|his|birth|to|letitia|b|bier|and|they|ijecam|the|parent|of|three
son|and|two|daughter|abijah|davi|abraham|baldwin|courtland|an
no|biograph|histori|of|the|first
renssala|elizabeth|and|mari|rhoda|the|mother|die|august|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one
and|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|david|reev|marri|tryphena|hand|by|whom|he|had|a
son|ios|wilhamson|after|a|busi|and|use|life|mrs|tryphena|reev
die|octob|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|david|reev|pass|away|octob|four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|at
the|age|of|seventyon|and|a|half|year|both|be|buri|in|the|cold|spring
churchyard
andrew|h|reev|twin|brother|of|david|was|marri|to|isabella|ilat
thew|januari|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|their|children|were|andrew|h|who|die|in|in
fanci|clement|b|born|august|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|emma|rush|who|die|in|infanc
samuel|w|who|was|born|octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|mari|e|born|juli|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one
william|h|born|januari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|charl|c|emma|j|born|may|thirty
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|charlott|m|born|octob|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|isabella|m|reev|was|a
true|wife|a|fond|mother|and|an|earnest|christian|woman|she|love|the
church|of|her|choic|the|presbyterian|and|stood|readi|to|make|ani|sacri
fice|for|it|good|she|die|june|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|was|buri|in|the|cold|spring
churchyard|on|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|andrew|reev|marri|mrs|eliza
hand|the|widow|of|aaron|hand|she|die|march|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|mr|reev
depart|this|life|februari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|like|the|other|of|the|famili|his|remain
were|inter|in|the|cold|spring|churchyard
joshua|h|reev|the|fourth|son|of|abijah|an|merci|reev|was|born
in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|juli|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|and|at|an|earli|age|was
apprent|to|isaac|whildin|to|learn|the|shoemak|s|trade|he|complet
his|apprenticeship|but|as|the|work|did|not|agre|with|him|he|then|accept
a|posit|as|a|farm|hand|at|the|age|of|thirtytwo|he|join|the|presbi
terian|church|he|was|a|man|of|the|strictest|integr|and|honor|in|all
his|deal|he|was|a|kind|father|but|strict|in|famili|disciplin|was|care
ful|in|his|dress|and|alway|neat|in|his|person|appear|a|strong|advo
cate|of|temper|he|was|an|activ|member|of|the|order|of|son|of|tem
peranc|he|was|one|of|the|first|scholar|in|the|cape|may|sundayschool
was|alway|a|worker|in|the|school|and|it|was|larg|through|his|effort
that|it|had|an|exist|it|stand|now|as|a|monument|to|his|christian|de
votion|more|desir|than|ani|monument|of|stone|could|l|e|at|the|time
of|his|death|he|was|serv|as|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool
joshua|reev|was|marri|to|eleanor|oolson|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and
to|them|were|born|seven|son|and|four|daughter|david|born|octob|fifteen
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|swain|s|born|juli|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|andrew|h|born|may|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|john
w|born|decemb|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|charl|w|born|januari|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|joshua
h|born|decemb|i|one hundred and eighty-four|mari|e|born|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|georg|h
born|januar|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|ann|e|born|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|eliza|born
juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|anni|m|born|septemb|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|the|father|joshua
congression|district|of|xejv|jersey|iii
reev|die|xovemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|and|was|ijuri|in|the|cold|spring|churc
yard
sarah|teal|a|daughter|of|aliijah|and|mercv|reev|was|born|april|five
one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|becam|the|wife|of|jacob|teal|august|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|she|has|for
mani|year|been|a|consist|member|of|the|iiethodist|church|and|is|still
interest|and|activ|in|church|and|sundayschool|work|her|life|has|been
a|busi|and|use|one|and|she|is|the|mother|of|four|children|adalin|mat
thew|lydia|hand|eliza|b|shaw|and|tryphena|matthew
loren|p|plummer
loren|p|plummer|the|surrog|of|salem|counti|new|jersey|is|a
gentleman|of|pleasant|address|and|affabl|manner|which|have|made|him|an
unlimit|number|of|friend|throughout|the|surround|countri|where|he|is
well|known|he|is|a|son|of|william|and|rebecca|carll|plummer|and|was
born|at|canton|this|counti|septemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|he|has|resid|in|salem
sinc|his|boyhood|and|his|upright|man|bear|and|honor|deal|in
all|transact|have|caus|him|to|be|regard|with|favor|iiy|his|employ
as|well|as|the|general|public
his|father|william|plummer|sr|is|one|of|the|counti|s|most|substanti
and|esteem|citizen|and|like|the|son|is|a|nativ|of|the|counti|he|was
born|in|lower|alloway|creek|township|januan|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|and|develop
into|one|of|the|shrewdest|busi|men|of|salem|counti|he|was|at|one
time|the|proprietor|of|a|general|countri|store|at|canton|and|later|dealt|in
hay|feed|etc|in|this|citi|purchas|valuabl|properti|along|the|wharf
which|he|still|hold|and|own|a|sloop|that|carri|merchandis|between
salem|and|philadelphia|for|mani|year|he|is|still|activ|engag|in|busi
ness|manag|all|his|interest|in|the|most|abl|manner|although|he|is
now|in|his|eightyfirst|year|he|marri|miss|rebecca|carll|by|whom|he
had|five|children|elizabeth|k|deceas|mrs|georg|hire|sarah|mrs
georg|r|morrison|rebecca|mrs|benjamin|patterson|william|jr|and
loren|our|subject|the|mother|die|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|leav|a|wide
circl|of|friend|who|felt|her|death|to|be|a|person|loss
loren|p|plummer|was|educ|in|the|salem|public|school|and|then|en
tere|his|father|s|store|where|he|clerk|for|a|short|time|but|not|find
the|work|of|a|salesman|congeni|to|his|tast|he|turn|to|railroad|as
be|less|confin|and|more|to|be|desir|he|began|as|a|baggagemast
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|was|made|a|conductor|on|the|train|run|between|camden
and|salem|a|posit|he|held|for|seventeen|year|he|was|consid|to|be
one hundred and twelve|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|most|popular|conductor|that|ever|ran|on|that|road|and|the|popular
has|follow|him|in|his|other|line|of|employ|he|was|a|salesman|of
the|store|of|anamak|brown|larg|clothier|of|philadelphia|for|a|year
and|was|then|elect|surrog|of|salem|counti|for|five|year|the|posit
he|now|hold|and|the|first|he|would|accept|from|the|peopl|he|belong
to|the|knight|of|pythia|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|was|a|deleg|of|the|order|of|rail
way|conductor|to|denver|colorado|he|was|marri|novemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight
to|miss|elizabeth|h|armstrong|a|daughter|of|jame|s|armstrong|the
agent|of|the|est|jersey|railway|locat|at|salem
samuel|w|reev
for|almost|a|third|of|a|centuri|mr|reev|has|given|to|the|profession
duti|that|fall|to|the|lot|of|the|legal|practition|a|close|and|undivid|at
tention|he|becam|identifi|with|the|bar|of|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|at|which
time|the|law|was|to|him|an|untri|field|success|and|promin|in|almost
ani|call|lie|along|the|line|of|patient|persev|and|faith|work|this
mr|reev|realiz|and|resolv|that|if|earnest|labor|could|secur|success|it
would|be|his|his|career|has|therefor|been|character|by|this|factor|of
prosper|and|supplement|this|are|his|keen|percept|sound|judgment
and|natur|abil|there|are|no|other|qualiti|absolut|essenti|to
advanc|and|upon|the|ladder|of|his|own|build|samuel|winchest
reev|has|climb|to|emin|in|the|legal|profess
sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|has|been|a|resid|of|philadelphia|but|maintain|a|sum
mer|resid|in|cape|may|counti|which|is|the|ancestr|home|of|the|reev
famili|so|promin|have|the|repres|of|the|name|been|connect
with|the|upbuild|progress|and|improv|of|this|local|that|the|life
histori|of|ani|who|bear|the|patronym|could|not|fail|to|prove|of|interest|in
this|connect|and|especi|so|of|mr|reev|of|this|review|who|is|so
wide|and|favor|known|throughout|southern|new|jersey|where|he|has
quit|extens|properti|hold
he|was|born|in|west|cape|may|octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|his|parent|be
andrew|h|and|isabella|reev|the|ancestr|histori|appear|on|anoth
page|of|this|work|he|pursu|his|literari|educ|in|the|privat|school
of|his|nativ|town|in|the|west|jersey|academi|at|bridgetown|where|he
remain|three|year|and|then|enter|the|junior|class|of|princeton|colleg
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|be|graduat|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|tlie|degre|of|bachelor|of
art|was|confer|upon|him|and|two|year|later|that|of|master|of|art|upon
his|graduat|he|becam|a|law|student|in|the|offic|of|e|spencer|iiller|of
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and thirteen
philadelphia|who|was|one|of|the|professor|in|the|law|depart|of|the
univers|of|pennsylvania|mr|reev|accord|attend|the|lectur|at
the|univers|and|won|his|degre|from|that|institut|he|was|admit
to|the|bar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|continu|in|mr|miller|s|ofific|as|his|assist|until
the|death|of|his|preceptor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|then|form|a|partnership|with|j
howard|gendel|and|succeed|to|mr|miller|s|busi|the|firm|of|gen
dell|reev|has|sinc|continu|practic|and|their|busi|has|been|of|a
distinct|repres|charact|in|the|civil|court|of|this|district|their
offic|is|locat|at|xo|one thousand, four hundred and twenty|chestnut|street|in|the|crozer|build|where
they|have|a|fine|law|librari|mr|reev|had|a|broad|knowledg|of|the|vari
ous|depart|of|jurisprud|but|has|alway|made|a|specialti|of|civil
law|and|now|has|a|larg|clientag|which|indic|that|he|rank|among|the
best|practition|of|the|citi
mr|reev|has|been|a|resid|of|philadelphia|for|thirtyfour|year|but
has|a|beauti|summer|home|at|cape|may|and|own|three|farm|in|that
local|includ|the|old|homestead|properti|in|west|cape|may|visit
his|nativ|counti|each|summer|he|is|thus|wide|known|within|it|border
and|has|the|warm|regard|of|a|larg|circl|of|friend|mani|of|wliom|have
known|him|from|boyhood|while|in|colleg|he|was|a|member|of|the|whig
literari|societi|sinc|attain|his|major|he|has|given|his|polit
support|to|the|republican|parti|and|is|one|of|the|stanch|advoc|of|it
principl|he|hold|membership|in|the|tabernacl|presbyterian|church
of|philadelphia|has|been|secretari|of|it|board|of|truste|for|thirti|year|an
elder|in|the|church|for|twenti|year|and|for|a|long|period|superintend|of
the|sundayschool
on|the|25th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|mr|reev|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
tryphena|b|a|daughter|of|down|edmund|and|they|have|four|children
lotti|born|june|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|becam|the|wife|of|robert|h|barr|then|a|drug
gist|of|philadelphia|but|now|a|resid|of|ashevill|north|carolina|jenni
jl|born|novemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|die|at|the|age|of|seven|week|harri|mccook
born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|die|at|the|age|of|seven|month|nelh|w|born|june|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
is|now|a|student|in|the|high|school
mrs|reev|is|also|a|representati|of|one|of|the|old|famili|of|southern
new|jersey|her|patern|grandfath|down|edmund|sr|resid|at
fish|creek|cape|may|counti|where|his|birth|occur|he|was|a
farmer|and|had|one|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|valuabl|land|which|is|now
own|by|mr|reev|he|also|engag|in|general|merchandis|at|fish
ing|creek|and|conduct|an|extens|and|profit|busi|he|was|well
known|throughout|the|communiti|as|an|upright|honor|man|a|loyal|and
publicspirit|citizen|and|a|gentleman|of|firm|convict|on|the|side|of
one hundred and fourteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
moral|and|right|he|held|membership|in|the|cold|spring|presbyterian
church|his|wife|who|bore|the|maiden|name|of|eliza|stillwel|was|a|daugh
ter|of|a|sea|captain|their|children|were|six|in|number|down|jr|be
the|eldest|joanna|becam|the|wife|of|georg|foster|a|farmer|of|cape|may
tryphena|marri|page|crowel|a|sea|captain|and|their|children|were
aaron|d|e|a|farmer|who|marri|jane|a|foster|of|est|cape|may
thoma|stillwel|edward|m|trjphena|c|anna|f|and|sarah|edmund
abigail|becam|the|second|wife|of|page|crowel|and|had|two|children
thoma|s|and|abigail|e|luther|c|marri|mari|edmund|and|they
have|a|daughter|roxanna|who|becam|the|wife|of|x|c|price|a|farmer
and|merchant|of|cape|may|citi|by|whom|she|had|two|son|william|c|and
luther|e|the|former|is|an|attorney|at|law|was|the|societi|editor|of|the
philadelphia|inquir|and|marri|carri|holliday|by|whom|he|has|one
child|marion|luther|e|price|is|now|on|the|stafif|of|the|new|york|herald
zeruiah|e|marri|jame|s|hewett|a|sea|captain|resid|in|philadelphia
their|children|are|dr|georg|a|a|physician|of|philadelphia|eliza|e|mari
b|jame|a|wholesal|grocer|of|philadelphia|who|marri|hannah|bray
man|and|has|five|children|jame|k|w|montgomeri|mar|b|florenc
and|georg|a|luther|e|hewett|the|next|child|of|captain|hewett|is|an
attorney|at|law|of|philadelphia|and|marri|nelli|jen|by|whom|he|has
two|children|robert|p|and|william|j|down|e|hewett|is|a|wholesal
dealer|in|white|good|and|notion|in|philadelphia|and|marri|susan|hall
by|whom|he|has|three|children|h|hartley|anna|c|and|down|e
down|edmund|the|father|of|mrs|reev|was|born|at|fish|creek
and|becam|a|farmer|and|general|contractor|he|was|associ|with|david
and|andrew|reev|in|the|latter|busi|they|take|contract|for|the|con
struction|of|and|move|build|build|bridg|lighthous|team
and|the|wreck|of|vessel|he|resid|in|west|cape|may|and|becam|the
owner|of|consider|land|in|this|section|of|the|state|in|his|busi|under
take|he|prosper|his|capabl|manag|and|enterpris|bring|to
him|a|handsom|compet|he|was|also|a|leader|in|public|thought|and
movement|take|an|activ|part|in|public|affair|he|was|sever|time
elect|to|repres|cape|may|counti|in|the|state|senat|and|left|the|impress
of|his|individu|upon|the|legisl|of|the|state|he|also|serv|as|counti
judg|for|sever|year|and|did|consider|legal|busi|his|polit|sup
port|was|given|the|republican|parti|and|public|opinion|accord|him|a
promin|and|honor|posit|in|polit|social|and|busi|circl
he|was|a|member|of|the|cold|spring|presbyterian|church|took|an|activ
part|in|it|work|and|sere|for|mani|year|as|a|truste|he|was|three|time
marri|his|first|union|be|with|sarah|wale|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|their
coxgression|district|of|nejv|jersey|one hundred and fifteen
children|were|sarah|e|eli|d|and|tryphena|b|the|last|name|the|wife|of
mr|reev|for|his|second|wife|he|chose|ellen|wale|a|sister|of|his|first
wife|and|his|third|union|was|with|electa|r|hand|the|children|of|this
marriag|are|charl|h|herhert|x|perri|charl|h|abigail|p|ada
f|and|electa|h|the|father|of|this|famili|die|septemb|i|one|eight hundred and ninety-one|at|the
advanc|age|of|seventyeight|year|and|the|communiti|therebi|lost|one|of
it|most|valu|citizen|a|man|whom|to|know|was|to|respect|and|honor
isaac|k|lippincott
the|lippincott|famili|is|not|onli|one|of|the|oldest|and|most|honor
famili|in|the|unit|state|but|lui|also|a|similar|record|in|england|the
name|was|deriv|from|lovecotc|which|occur|in|the|domesday|book|or
census|made|by|order|of|william|the|conqueror|in|one thousand and eighty-six|of|land|held|by
edward|the|confessor|in|i04if|f|this|name|of|saxon|origin|impli|that
a|land|proprietor|by|the|name|of|love|was|tlie|holder|of|certain|estat
and|the|housecot|and|henc|was|term|lovecot|as|the|centuri|roll
awav|the|famili|patronym|underw|numer|chang|becom|lough
uyngcot|lyvenscott|luffingcott|luppingcott|and|final|lippincott|in
which|latter|form|it|has|continu|for|more|than|two|centuri
in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-nine|richard|and|abigail|lippincott|emigr|from|devonshir
england|to|boston|massachusett|for|sever|year|they|endur|the
hardship|and|fortun|of|the|littl|coloni|at|that|point|but|eentual|in
one hundred and eighty-five|one|were|excommun|for|nonconform|to|the|sever|rule|laid
down|by|the|local|church|they|then|return|to|england|and|made|their
home|at|plymouth|devonshir|where|the|later|identifi|themselv|with
the|societi|of|friend|this|sect|then|in|it|infanc|was|great|persecut
by|the|intoler|peopl|of|that|day|and|at|last|mr|lippincott|decid|to
cast|in|his|lot|onc|more|with|the|inhabit|of|new|england|hope|to
find|a|home|where|he|might|worship|god|accord|to|the|dictat|of|his
conscienc|consequ|the|littl|famili|return|to|america|and|after
abid|for|some|time|in|rhode|island|ultim|remov|to|shrewsburi
monmouth|counti|new|jersey|there|richard|lippincott|becam|one|of
the|largest|patente|of|land|in|the|new|coloni|and|won|a|well|merit
posit|among|his|neighbor|he|die|novemb|twenty-five|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|and|was|sur
vive|by|his|widow|whose|death|occur|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-seven|they|left|a|valuabl
estat|and|hand|down|to|their|poster|an|iionoreil|name|and|a|blameless
life|record
isaac|k|lippincott|of|this|sketch|is|a|son|of|jess|and|henrietta|kay
lippincott|the|former|a|nativ|of|haddonfield|new|jersey|he|was|a|plain
ii6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
unassum|citizen|devot|to|what|he|behev|to|be|his|duti|kind|and
just|by|natur|and|love|by|those|who|knew|him|well|he|settl|in|wood
town|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|thenceforth|live|retir|from|activ|work|until|his|death
when|he|was|in|iii|seventyfifth|year|he|was|a|consist|member|of|the|so
cieti|of|friend|and|jioliticallv|was|first|a|hig|and|later|a|republican|for
some|year|prior|to|his|death|he|was|one|of|the|director|in|the|first|na
tional|bank|of|woodstown|his|wife|who|die|at|the|age|of|fiftythre
year|was|a|tlaughter|of|joseph|and|mari|ka|kay|the|father|who
was|a|nativ|of|camden|counti|this|state|was|influenti|in|the|polit|of
that|counti|in|earli|day|and|at|one|time|he|was|it|repres|in|the
state|legislatur|he|live|to|attain|the|advanc|age|of|ninetyfour|year
the|birth|of|l|k|lippincott|took|place|in|gloucest|counti|decemb
twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|when|he|was|in|his|twelfth|year|he|remov|with|his|parent|to
woodstown|and|after|his|complet|of|a|threeyear|cours|at|the|south
jersey|institut|bridgeton|new|jersey|he|start|upon|the|more|arduous
duti|of|life|as|the|manag|of|his|father|s|farm|he|is|still|occupi|in
agricultur|though|his|energi|are|not|confin|to|this|vocat|mong
the|numer|enterpris|which|ha|e|receiv|his|substanti|support|and
encourag|the|follow|may|be|mention|the|cooper|caim
compani|and|also|a|canning|factorv|under|the|firm|name|of|davi|lip
pincott|the|firm|of|davi|coleson|compani|dealer|in|feed|and|agricul
tural|implement|and|the|first|nation|bank|of|woodstown|elsewher
special|refer|to|of|this|well|known|institut|he|is|one|of|the|director
and|was|elect|it|presid|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|as|successor|to|jame
benezet|deceas|like|his|father|befor|him|he|is|a|stanch|republican
and|take|an|ardent|interest|in|the|proper|manag|of|local|and|public
affair|for|thirteen|year|he|serv|as|a|memlier|of|the|cit|council|eleen
year|of|this|period|in|success
the|marriag|of|mr|lippincott|and|miss|laura|f|dean|was|solemn
decemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|three|children|grace|their|union|name|in|order|of
birth|respect|jess|marian|and|lawrenc|mrs|lippincott|is|a|daugh
ter|of|samuel|and|lydia|madera|dean|the|former|a|nativ|of|salem|counti
and|a|director|in|the|first|nation|bank|of|woodstown|mrs|lippincott
is|a|member|of|the|presbyterian|church
joseph|cook|m|d
tlie|greater|part|of|the|threescor|and|ten|year|of|the|life|of|dr|joseph
cook|late|of|daretown|was|pass|in|salem|counti|where|he|was|well|and
favorablv|known|his|life|was|quiet|and|unostentati|yet|it|left|a|last
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and seventeen
impress|upon|those|with|whom|he|was|associ|and|alway|for|good|he
took|a|deep|interest|in|whatev|affect|the|pul|lic|welfar|and|his|influenc
which|was|not|inconsider|was|eer|exert|in|a|wise|and|patriot|man
ner|though|he|has|pass|to|his|rewartl|his|memori|is|tender|cherish
in|the|heart|of|his|innumera1|le|sincer|friend|whom|he|endear|to|him
self|by|a|thousand|act|of|kind|and|love
his|patern|grandfath|joseph|cook|was|a|wealthi|and|promin
citizen|of|pole|tavern|hold|mani|local|offic|of|trust|and|honor|ne
of|his|children|marmaduk|cook|was|the|father|of|joseidi|the|subject|of
this|memoir|his|nativ|took|place|in|iloucest|counti|new|jersey
august|twenty-five|eight hundred and twenty-five|in|his|boyhood|he|attend|the|common|school|of|his
home|neighborhood|and|pennington|seminari|there|lay|the|fountlalion
of|a|fine|educ|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|he|was|graduat|in|the|medic|dejjart
of|the|universit|of|pennsyhania|he|at|onc|enter|upon|the|practic
of|his|chosen|profess|but|at|the|end|of|about|twelv|year|dure|which
time|he|had|acquir|an|enviabl|reput|for|skill|and|general|abilit|he
retir|from|his|profess|becom|engag|in|other|pursuit|he|then
went|to|philadelphia|where|he|emljarketl|in|the|drug|busi|and|in|this
line|of|endeavor|he|continu|for|some|three|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|retir|and
came|to|daretown|where|in|content|he|spent|the|remain|year|of
his|life|dure|the|great|civil|war|his|svmpathi|were|strong|enlist
and|subs|uent|to|the|liattl|of|ciettysburg|he|volunt|his|servic|as|a
surgeon|and|for|a|long|period|was|at|the|front|do|heroic|duti|reliev
the|suffer|of|the|brae|bov|who|wore|the|blue|and|jirov|himself|in
valual|le|as|a|physician|and|nurs|he|was|a|great|student|and|kept|thor
ough|post|on|everyth|pertain|to|his|profess|take|the|lead
medic|journal|and|in|even|possibl|manner|enlarg|his|mental|horizon
he|was|broadmind|and|philanthrop|believ|firm|in|the|great|futur
and|wonder|possibl|of|this|countri|and|his|optimist|view|upon
everi|subject|were|a|sourc|of|comfort|and|strength|to|all|with|whom|he|came
into|contact|for|a|period|of|ten|year|he|was|the|judg|of|the|court|of
common|plea|make|a|record|of|which|his|children|have|reason|to|be
proud|his|decis|were|intellig|imparti|and|mark|by|the|candor
and|fearless|which|were|among|his|notabl|characterist
on|the|6th|of|pril|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|a|marriag|ceremoni|was|ierform|bv|which
the|destini|of|dr|cook|and|miss|sarah|m|richman|vvere|unit|she|is
a|daughter|of|harman|and|susan|richman|of|whig|lane|salem|counti
two|son|and|a|daughter|bless|the|union|of|the|doctor|and|wife|name
iliiam|who|resid|at|philadelphia|harmon|who|die|in|childhood|and
mari|wlui|is|the|wife|of|trueman|clayton|of|philadelphia|after|a|happv
ii8|biograph|hisrorv|of|the|first
marri|life|of|fortytwo|year|durat|dr|cook|was|summon|to|the
better|land|l|y|the|angel|of|death|tlie|date|of|the|sad|event|be|march|lo
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|when|he|lack|but|a|few|month|of|seventi|year|of|age
william|b|carpent
insepar|connect|with|the|histori|and|develop|of|the|earli
coloni|life|of|new|jersey|and|pennsylvania|is|to|be|found|the|name|of|car
penter|a|name|that|has|been|synonym|with|upright|honor|deal
commerci|prosper|and|religi|advanc|the|gentleman|whose
name|appear|at|the|head|of|this|articl|was|a|high|respect|citizen|of
salem|new|jersev|where|man|generat|of|the|famili|have|live|and
die|he|was|born|in|elsinboro|township|this|counti|august|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|and
was|a|son|of|william|and|mari|beasley|carjcnter|in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|two
brother|joshua|and|samuel|carpent|came|from|england|and|settl|in
the|rovinc|of|pennsylvania|these|brother|were|lead|charact|of
that|time|and|were|promin|mention|in|the|annal|of|the|provinc
they|marri|and|left|famili|to|perpetu|their|name|and|to|this|day|their
descend|are|among|the|most|honor|and|influenti|citizen|of|this
communiti|even|as|their|father|were|in|centuri|past
illiam|beasley|carpent|is|a|direct|descend|of|joshua|carpent|of
philadelphia|whose|name|appear|promin|in|the|earliest|minut|of|the
estri|of|christ|church|head|the|list|of|vestrymen|present|at|almost|everi
vestri|meet|until|his|death|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-two|his|son|samuel|accompani|him|to
these|meet|for|the|two|or|three|year|preced|his|death|and|the|name
of|both|are|to|be|seen|on|the|page|of|the|first|cashbook|which|is|still|in
the|possess|of|the|church|joshua|was|one|of|three|ap|oint|by|the
vestri|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-one|to|negoti|for|the|piec|of|ground|lie|to|the|north|of|the
origin|purchas|and|which|is|the|churchyard|north|of|the|present|church|build
ing|legal|document|now|in|the|possess|of|the|carpent|famili|show
that|he|was|chosen|to|act|for|christ|church|in|take|the|titl|to|the|land
upon|which|the|church|edific|was|built|that|his|money|was|use|to|complet
the|purchas|and|that|the|legal|titl|remain|in|his|name|although|the|equit
abl|titl|is|in|the|church|corpor|he|was|oppos|to|the|quaker|style
of|govern|although|he|was|a|man|of|except|good|stand|in|the
communitv|as|even|his|adversari|the|quaker|admit|and|one|of|them
jame|logan|secretari|of|the|provinc|in|write|to|illiam|penn|under
date|of|august|eight|one thousand, seven hundred and four|said|of|joshua|carpent|he|is|himself|realli|a
good|man|penn|recogn|his|true|worth|in|the|face|of|his|opposit|to
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and nineteen
the|quaker|and|in|one thousand, seven hundred and one|name|him|in|the|charter|of|the|citi|of|philadel
phia|as|one|of|it|first|aldermen|three|year|later|he|was|again|elect
he|was|a|member|of|the|provinci|assembl|in|one thousand, seven hundred and two|one thousand, seven hundred and six|one thousand, seven hundred and seven|one thousand, seven hundred and eight|he
built|a|charm|resid|on|the|north|side|of|chestnut|street|between
sixth|and|seventh|the|ground|of|which|were|laid|out|in|an|artist|and
beauti|manner|he|made|his|will|august|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty|and|ad|a|codicil
juli|twenty-three|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-two|both|of|which|were|prove|august|two|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-two|and|record|in
will|book|d|page|three hundred and twenty-five|at|philadelphia|in|this|will|he|made|his|wife|eliza
beth|executrix|and|the|onli|child|mention|is|his|daughter|sarah|who
marri|enoch|stori|who|is|also|mention|as|well|as|the|two|grandchil
dren|robert|and|patienc|stori|from|the|will|of|ehzabeth|carpent|it
is|learn|that|the|son|samuel|receiv|a|good|estat|dure|his|father|s|life
time|and|it|is|known|that|he|own|a|larg|tract|of|land|in|delawar|one
of|his|son|william|settl|in|salem|counti|about|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|and|marri|mari
powel|a|daughter|of|jeremiah|and|jane|powel|they|had|four|children
name|man|who|marri|jacob|ware|abigail|who|marri|edward
hancock|powel|who|was|a|privat|in|the|militia|and|was|serious|wound
dure|the|battl|of|hancock|s|bridg|march|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|and|william|who
was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|and|was|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|his|name|appear
on|the|muster|roll|of|captain|john|smith|s|compani|he|aftenvard|follow
the|vocat|of|farm|in|elsinboro|township|was|a|true|patriot|an|honor
abl|citizen|and|held|the|respect|and|esteem|of|all|he|came|to|a|violent
death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and three|as|the|result|of|a|runaway|his|wife|was|elizabeth|ware|a
direct|descend|of|joseph|ware|who|came|to|salem|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|their|chil
dren|were|samuel|who|marri|mari|iason|and|move|to|new|castl
indiana|marw|whose|first|husband|was|thoma|hancock|and|her|second
samuel|cooper|abigail|wife|of|john|goodwin|william|the|father|of|our
subject|elizabeth|who|marri|illiam|thompson|powel|a|mason|of
philadelphia|who|marri|eliza|slaughter|for|his|first|wife|and|after|her
death|ann|slaughter|and|sarah|who|marri|joseph|hancock|and|re
side|in|mannington|township|elizabeth|ware|carpent|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three
and|die|in|the|same|year|as|her|husband|one thousand, eight hundred and three
william|carpent|the|father|of|william|b|was|born|april|four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|in
elsinboro|township|this|counti|and|becam|one|of|the|most|extens|and
prosperoti|agriculturist|of|the|township|he|was|a|care|busi|man
and|succeed|in|a|mark|degre|accumul|suffici|mean|to|enabl
him|to|retir|from|activ|work|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|at|which|time|he|becam|a|resid
of|the|citi|of|salem|where|he|continu|to|live|until|death|remov|him
may|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|was|a|man|of|great|execut|abil|and|was|chosen|to
fill|a|number|of|local|offic|and|for|manv|vear|was|a|freehold|his|mar
i20|biograph|histori|of|the|first
riag|to|mari|beasley|was|honor|by|the|birth|of|five|children|name
elizabeth|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|was|the|wife|of|joseph|b
thompson|powel|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|marri|mari
lawson|morri|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|and|john|m|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven
and|marri|anni|i|harvey
abner|beasley|the|father|of|mrs|william|carpent|was|born|in|lower
alloway|creek|township|this|counti|and|was|a|son|of|morri|beasley|who
was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-seven|and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|morri|marri|mari|waddington|a
granddaught|of|william|waddington|who|was|one|of|the|first|settler
took|up|consider|land|in|that|township|their|children|with|date|of
birth|and|death|were|benjamin|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-two
walker|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-five|was|a|member|of|the|second|battalion|under
captain|sheppard|and|was|massacr|at|hancock|s|bridg|march|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight
hannah|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight|mari|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|david
who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-six|and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|abner|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|and
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and six|jonathan|who|was|bom|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|and|die|the|same|year|and
ann|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|morri|beasley|s|father|was
john|beasley|who|was|one|of|the|first|settler|of|lower|alloway|creek|he
marri|hannah|walker|and|rear|jame|morri|and|thoma|bner
beasley|leav|the|farm|move|to|salem|where|he|conduct|a|larg|gen
eral|store|and|was|a|popular|man|of|the|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and four|he|was|collector|of
salem|counti|also|the|first|treasur|of|the|salem|librari|compani|he
was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|marri|mari|mason|l|y|whom
he|had|four|children|mari|wife|of|william|carpent|william|who|mar
rie|rachel|pettit|benjamin|who|marri|and|live|in|illinoi|and|thoma
who|marri|phoeb|gill|abner|beasley|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and six|at|the|age|of|thirti
seven|year|and|his|wife|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|at|the|age|of|eightytwo|year|she|was
one|of|the|descend|of|john|mason|an|influenti|citizen|and|wealthi
landown|in|salem|s|earli|day|he|was|appoint|a|justic|of|salem|court
in|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen|and|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty|and|was|a|member|of|the|general|free|assembl|for|west
new|jersey|from|salem|tenth|in|seventeen|ten|and|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-one|mari|mason|beasley|s
ancestri|can|also|be|trace|to|john|smith|of|smithfield|one|of|fenwick|s
executor|to|john|smith|of|ambleburi|who|came|to|salem|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|and|to
rothra|morri|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|who|own|a|planta
tion|of|sixteen|hundr|acr|in|elsinboro
william|b|carpent|attend|the|district|school|wherein|he|receiv
his|primari|educ|which|was|supplement|by|stud|in|clairmont|semi
nari|at|frankford|pennsylvania|and|in|the|friend|school|at|salem|after
his|student|life|was|end|he|taught|school|for|five|term|in|his|nativ|town
ship|and|then|engag|in|the|pursuit|of|agricultur|continu|in|that|work
coxgressioxil|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and twenty-one
until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|when|he|put|asid|the|arduous|duti|of|the|farm|and|took|up
his|abod|in|salem|he|howev|retain|possess|of|the|farm|in|elsin
boro|and|one|in|mannington|township|until|his|death|and|was|connect|with
other|busi|pursuit|be|a|director|of|the|farmer|mutual|life|insur
anc|compani|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|it|presid|for|ten|year|have|succeed
judg|bilderback|in|that|offic
mr|carpent|was|twice|marri|his|first|wife|ije|miss|martha|gaskil
of|columbus|new|jersey|their|wed|was|celebr|decemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six
and|seven|children|were|born|of|their|union|name|howard|deceas
mari|wife|of|edward|lawrenc|william|deceas|luci|g|at|home
anna|wife|of|a|weatherbi|martha|wife|of|edmund|nieukirk|and|re
becca|deceas|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|mr|carpent|marri
nanci|a|daughter|of|robert|peas|a|farmer|of|somer|connecticut|they
were|marri|june|four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|three|children|were|born|to|them|name
william|h|a|physician|julia|a|and|fanni|p
mr|carpent|attend|the|meet|of|the|friend|societi|and|in
polit|he|affili|with|the|grand|old|republican|part|he|has|held|most
of|the|township|offic|ha|serv|as|freehold|collector|and|assessor
in|eighteen thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|he|was|a|member|of|the|general|assembl|and|was|tender|the
nomin|for|senat|but|refus|the|honor|in|busi|affair|he|enjoy
an|unassail|reput|and|his|broad|capabl|excel|manag
and|keen|discern|combin|with|untir|industri|brought|to|him|a
comfort|compet|he|enjoy|the|deserv|esteem|and|respect|of
his|fellow|men|have|the|warm|friendship|of|mani|of|his|acquaint
his|life|s|labor|were|end|in|death|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|and|his|remain
were|inter|in|the|east|view|cemeteri|at|salem
eno|richmond
eno|richmond|of|elmer|salem|counti|new|jersev|for|mani|year
promin|in|the|depart|of|justic|and|at|present|one|of|the|counti|s
most|progress|and|influenti|agriculturist|was|a|soldier|of|the|armi|for
the|suppress|of|the|rebellion|in|which|he|render|his|countri|invalu
aid|he|was|born|in|schohari|counti|new|york|april|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|and|is|a
son|of|richard|richmond|who|was|born|at|hyde|park|dutchess|counti
new|york|the|grandfath|cyrus|was|born|at|poughkeepsi|that|state
and|was|a|son|of|benjamin|richmond|a|nativ|of|taunton|massachusett
john|richmond|was|one|of|two|brother|who|came|from|devonshir|eng
land|to|seek|an|asylum|in|this|countri|from|the|religi|persecut|suf
one hundred and twenty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fere|by|the|quaker|to|which|rehgious|sect|they|ijelong|they|settl
at|martha|s|vineyard|and|later|john|move|to|taunton|massachusett
where|he|was|the|first|white|settler|they|were|all|tiller|of|the|soil|for|mani
generat|and|were|an|industri|hardwork|famili
richard|richmond|move|to|schohari|counti|new|york|when|a|young
man|and|was|a|schoolteach|in|his|earlier|manhood|he|was|join|in
matrimoni|to|miss|iydia|brainard|a|daughter|of|jess|brainard|of|con
necticut|and|had|twelv|children|seven|of|whom|are|still|live|to|perpetu
his|name|and|memorj|they|are|asenath|est|of|pownal|vermont|de
light|now|mrs|jona|evan|of|pittsgrov|new|jersey|leonard|a|resid
of|west|sand|lake|new|york|nanci|unmarri|also|live|there|eftey
wife|of|chris|welker|of|west|sand|lake|eno|our|subject|and|isaiah|of
virginia
eno|richmond|attend|school|until|his|tenth|year|when|he|enter
a|cottonmanufactur|establish|where|he|remain|five|year|leav
it|to|learn|the|trade|of|carriagemak|at|which|he|work|three|year|he
was|then|in|his|eighteenth|year|and|he|start|in|busi|for|himself|run
a|plane|mill|and|carriag|manufactori|he|first|locat|at|manchest
vermont|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|went|to|berryvill|virginia|and|conduct|the|same
line|of|busi|there|for|a|few|year|be|success|his|brother|cyrus
join|him|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|howev|at|that|time|the|countri|was|in|a|state|of
turmoil|over|the|slaveri|question|and|all|the|northern|were|regard|with
suspicion|by|the|peopl|of|that|state|violenc|be|resort|to|in|mani|case
to|rid|the|place|of|an|undesir|occup|and|excit|ran|so|high|that
it|was|unsaf|to|continu|there|so|mr|richmond|move|to|harper|s|ferri
in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|leav|his|busi|and|ten|thousand|dollar|in|account|be
hind|him|he|return|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|after|the|war|and|tri|to|dispos|of|his|busi
ness|and|account|but|was|unsuccess|and|was|oblig|to|leas|his|properti
and|leav|on|account|of|be|in|the|feder|armi|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|his
brother|was|taken|prison|and|was|one|of|the|few|men|shot|and|kill|at
libbi|prison|shot|by|a|guard|for|look|out|of|a|window|tlieir|sus
picion|that|mr|richmond|was|a|sympath|with|the|north|were|well
found|as|his|aid|to|the|govern|did|not|wait|for|accomplish|until
the|break|out|of|the|war|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|chanc|to|be|at|harper|s
ferri|a|short|distanc|from|where|he|live|when|a|friend|a|northern|man
but|a|quartermast|in|a|virginia|regiment|show|him|a|telegram|just|re
ceiv|from|those|in|author|order|him|to|have|wagon|etc|in|readi
the|follow|night|as|it|was|the|intent|of|the|johnni|to|captur|the
arsenal|at|that|point|and|secur|the|thirti|thousand|stand|of|mini|musket
etc|store|there|after|read|this|messag|mr|richmond|start|for
coxgressiox|district|of|a|f|jersey|one hundred and twenty-three
home|but|as|soon|as|he|was|out|of|sight|lie|turn|and|took|anoth|road
which|enabl|him|to|reach|the|arsenal|in|the|shortest|possibl|time|and|give
notic|to|the|command|offic|of|the|expect|attack|the|offic|notifi
he|author|at|washington|who|in|turn|author|him|to|blow|up|the
arsenal|if|necessari|rather|than|have|it|fall|into|the|hand|of|the|enemi
which|was|done|mr|richmond|then|went|to|harper|s|ferr|and|enlist
was|place|in|the|secretservic|depart|and|was|of|great|assist|as
he|was|familiar|with|the|peopl|of|the|countri|he|enlist|in|the|twenti
eighth|pennsylvania|olunt|general|geari|s|regiment|at|harper|s|fer
ry|and|was|detail|to|duti|under|mcclellan|hooker|bank|and|other
general|serv|all|through|the|war|he|was|captur|by|the|guerrilla
mosbi|on|januari|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|but|escap|after|the|first|night
after|the|war|close|he|return|to|irginia|and|settl|up|his|busi
as|well|as|he|could|and|iii|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|enter|the|employ|of|the|govern|as|a
special|agent|for|the|southernclaim|commiss|serv|nine|year|as
long|as|the|commiss|exist|and|travel|all|over|the|south|settl
up|claim|caus|bj|the|war|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|was|transfer|to|the|depart
of|justic|also|as|special|agent|and|one|year|later|to|the|frenchamerican
claim|commiss|he|serv|there|two|year|and|then|return|to|the
depart|of|justic|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|purchas|his|present|fann|of
one|hundr|and|thirtyf|acr|and|took|up|his|resid|upon|it|but|the
follow|year|the|depart|of|justic|again|sent|for|him|and|he|went
south|serv|under|presid|cleveland|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|when|he|return
liom|he|investig|thirti|thousand|case|on|the|abov|account|so|it
will|readil|l|e|seen|that|his|posit|was|a|respons|one|he|was|the|first
appoint|and|the|last|to|leav|the|commiss|from|which|fact|it|may|be
infer|that|he|understood|and|fulfil|the|requir|of|the|posit
besid|the|farm|upon|which|he|now|resid|he|also|own|one|in|virginia
nd|his|success|as|a|farmer|is|no|less|mark|than|his|public|career
he|has|been|marri|twice|wed|for|his|first|wife|miss|kate|osborn
who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|leav|four|children|willard|richard|of|philadelphia
mari|at|home|and|lydia|wife|of|allen|foster|of|daretown|new|jersey
on|the|26th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|he|marri|miss|hester|h|davi|and|by|this
luiion|has|two|children|oliv|j|and|edith|mr|richmond|is|a|quaker
or|friend|in|religion|and|a|memljer|of|berryvill|lodg|xo|one hundred and forty-eight|f|a
m|in|which|he|was|at|one|time|the|junior|warden|he|is|a|man|of|small
statur|keeney|and|alert|and|one|of|the|most|substanti|and|popular
men|in|the|communiti|he|has|a|fine|herd|of|regist|jersey|cattl|on
lii|farm|whose|record|as|butterproduc|can|not|be|surpass
one hundred and twenty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
r|m|hitchner
r|m|hitchner|exjudg|of|the|commonplea|court|and|a|vener|and
esteem|resid|of|elmer|salem|counti|has|seen|mani|and|import
chang|take|place|in|the|counti|dure|the|seventi|year|he|has|live|here
his|reminisc|of|the|earli|day|of|the|counti|are|high|interest|and
probabl|better|than|most|person|doe|he|understand|and|appreci|the
hardship|and|sacrific|necessari|to|bring|it|to|it|present|state|of|perfect
and|prosper|that|he|assist|materi|in|bring|about|mani|of|the
improv|it|need|but|a|brief|glanc|at|his|histori|to|show|and|the|gen
erous|public|spirit|and|desir|to|promot|the|citi|s|welfar|which|was|shown
by|him|in|those|day|is|still|a|lead|characterist|of|the|man|he|first
open|his|eye|to|the|light|of|day|in|a|hous|that|stood|near|the|site|now
occupi|by|the|presbyterian|church|on|februari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|in|the|famili|of
david|and|margaret|sithen|hitchner
david|hitchner|was|a|son|of|jacob|hitchner|one|of|three|brother
jacob|georg|and|martin|who|came|from|germani|to|this|countri|he
was|a|fanner|of|this|local|own|a|larg|acreag|which|includ|the|vil
lage|site|the|hous|stand|near|the|presbyterian|church|and|the|barn|oc
cupi|the|ground|now|cover|by|that|structur|in|the|heart|of|the|villag
the|popul|of|the|borough|at|that|time|number|thirteen|soul|and|is
well|rememb|by|the|subject|of|this|biographi|david|was|a|man|of|re
ligious|train|a|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|a|conscien
tious|hardwork|man|who|rose|to|promin|and|accumul|consid
abl|properti|through|his|untir|industri|and|persever|he|die|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|left|to|his|heir|four|hundr|acr|of|land|part|of|which|is|the|site
of|elmer|he|was|marri|to|margaret|sithen|at|the|old|pole|tavern
and|for|mani|year|they|journey|through|life|togeth|share|each|other|s
joy|and|sorrow|until|death|call|the|wife|to|the|better|land|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|and
three|year|later|she|was|follow|by|the|love|husband|she|was|a|daugh
ter|of|eno|sithen|a|veri|promin|man|of|salem|counti|her|brother
david|was|also|a|man|who|was|promin|and|held|mani|local|offic|and
was|afterward|elect|to|a|seat|in|the|legisl|hall|of|his|state|the|live
children|of|david|hitchner|and|wife|are|judg|hitchner|hiram|a|farmer
near|here|elizabeth|mrs|elijah|eastlak|of|deerfield|mari|jane|mrs|w
c|kean|of|camden|and|dr|c|f|a|practic|physician|of|this|villag
judg|hitchner|receiv|a|good|common|school|in|the|district|school
of|his|nativ|town|at|the|age|of|eighteen|he|engag|in|teach|and|con
tinu|at|this|employ|six|year|dure|the|winter|month|while|his|sum
m|five
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|one hundred and twenty-five
mer|were|spent|in|farm|later|he|gave|up|teacii|and|devot|his|en
tire|time|to|farm|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|more|than|fortyf|year|ago|he|huilt|the
resid|in|which|he|now|resid|the|home|farm|at|ehner|contain|one
hundr|and|seventyf|acr|and|five|other|farm|one|in|upper|pittsgrov
township|of|one|hundr|and|sixtyf|acr|and|four|in|pittsgrov|township
aggreg|about|three|thousand|acr|most|tillabl|land
he|is|a|stanch|democrat|and|has|held|sever|ofific|in|the|gift|of|the
peopl|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|he|was|elect|the|town|clerk|hold|the|offic|three|year
was|the|assessor|three|year|a|committeeman|twentyf|year|and|a|justic
of|the|peac|thirti|year|in|this|offic|he|has|endeavor|to|temper|justic
with|merci|especi|in|the|case|of|youth|offend|that|they|might|be
rescu|from|their|er|wa|s|and|becom|good|and|use|citizen|and
mani|a|young|man|has|reason|to|bless|the|kind|heart|that|prompt|the
word|of|father|advic|he|was|the|judg|of|the|commonplea|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four
to|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|has|also|been|a|notari|public|for|mani|year|for|over|twenti
five|year|he|has|been|the|presid|of|the|elmer|mutual|build|loan
associ|he|is|one|of|the|director|of|the|cumberland|mutual|fire|in
suranc|compani|of|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|director|of|the|bridgeton
nation|bank|sinc|it|organ|fifteen|year|ago|he|was|the|mayor
of|the|town|for|one|year|to|fill|a|vacanc|and|has|often|been|solicit|to|run
for|the|offic|but|has|invari|refus|he|was|in|the|citi|council|three
year|and|in|his|younger|day|was|an|acti|worker|in|the|becaus|of|temper
anc|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|allow|the|use|of|his|name|for|the|legislatur|but|as|he
made|but|littl|effort|to|secur|the|elect|for|himself|he|was|defeat
about|decemb|2y|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|occur|the|marriag|of|judg|r|m|hitch
ner|and|miss|elizabeth|a|garrison|she|was|a|daughter|of|samuel|garrison
an|old|settler|and|promin|methodist|of|pittsgrov|township|who|was|a
member|of|the|legislatur|sever|tune|almost|fifti|year|of|happi|marri
life|had|been|grant|this|worthi|coupl|and|on|june|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|just|as|they
were|approach|the|golden|mileston|in|the|midst|of|famili|and|friend
death|snap|the|silver|cord|that|bound|them|and|the|belov|wife|enter
into|her|etern|rest|the|children|who|are|left|to|solac|the|father|s|de
cline|year|are|joseph|educ|in|the|south|jers|institut|of|bridg
ton|and|has|been|the|telegraph|oper|and|agent|of|the|west|jersey|rail
way|at|elmer|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|john|f|a|farmer|resid|of|this|vicin|phoeb
c|who|marri|omer|h|newkirk|and|is|a|resid|of|friendship|this
counti|anna|m|at|home|and|harriet|one|who|marri|charl|h|gibson
judg|hitchner|is|a|remark|well|jireserv|man|and|still|take|plea
ure|in|contribut|to|the|advanc|of|the|busi|interest|of|elmer|and
ani|worthi|object|is|certain|of|meet|his|readi|sympathi|and|aid|the
one hundred and twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
build|fund|of|tlie|new|preslnterian|churc|was|increas|to|a|larg|extent
through|his|generos|although|he|is|an|attend|of|the|methodist|epi
copal|church|and|was|the|presid|of|the|board|of|truste|when|that|organi
zation|erect|their|new|hous|of|worship|he|has|spent|a|good|deal|of
money|in|his|efyort|to|bring|various|enterpris|to|this|place|and|with|a|few
other|offer|a|larg|bonus|to|prospect|manufactur|in|order|to|induc
them|to|start|in|busi|here|he|has|the|entir|confid|of|the|public
and|his|servic|have|been|in|demand|in|settl|up|estat|his|busi|life
has|been|crown|with|success|and|he|today|own|more|land|than|ani|man
in|the|counti
j|p|cheesman|m|d
dr|cheesman|a|promin|homeopath|physician|of|elmer|salem
counti|was|born|august|lo|one hundred and eighty-five|one|in|bridgeport|gloucest|counti|new
jersey|where|he|grew|to|manhood|he|is|a|son|of|nehemiah|and|rachel
atkinson|cheesman|and|a|grandsori|of|ephraim|cheesman|of|english
descent|nehemiah|was|bom|in|swedesboro|gloucest|counti|and|be
came|a|promin|farmer|of|that|communiti|he|was|a|zealous|worker|in
the|methodist|church|act|as|a|classlead|and|steward|for|over|forti
year|he|was|a|firm|believ|in|the|doctrin|promulg|by|the|old|church
and|regul|his|life|in|accord|with|the|strict|law|of|that|organ
was|one|of|the|pillar|of|the|church|and|was|alway|found|at|the|head|of|the
meet|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|leav|six|children|name|rev|h|n|chee
man|who|die|januari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|eli|dr|john|p|our|subject|drusilla|r
anna|h|and|georg|m|the|three|last|be|occup|of|the|old|home
stead
dr|j|p|cheesman|attend|the|puljlic|school|of|bridgeport|in|his
youth|and|later|took|privat|instruct|have|decid|to|make|the
studi|of|medicin|his|profess|he|enter|the|hahnemann|medic|col
lege|of|philadelphia|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|at|onc|came|to|elmer|where
he|began|the|practic|of|his|chosen|profess|he|at|onc|took|a|great
interest|in|all|public|affair|and|made|mani|friend|on|account|of|his|public
spirit|and|friend|disposit|at|the|same|time|display|a|knowledg|and
skill|in|his|practic|that|show|the|finish|student|and|call|forth|the
wonder|of|those|who|were|new|to|that|school|of|medicin|his|success|was
assur|from|the|start|ant|his|practic|now|includ|the|best|and|most
lucrat|in|the|villag|mani|of|those|who|held|aloof|at|first|be|now
among|it|strongest|advoc|he|keep|himself|post|up|to|date|on|med
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|one hundred and twenty-seven
ical|question|and|is|skill|in|his|practic|the|most|gratifi|result|attend
ing|his|ministr
dr|cheesman|was|first|marri|march|six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|to|miss|clementin|f
young|a|daughter|of|si|p|young|of|swedesboro|new|jersey|after
their|marriag|they|move|to|camden|this|state|where|she|die|in|august
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|at|the|latter|place|a|son|was|born|may|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|and|name|walter
c|who|on|grow|up|becam|a|postgradu|of|the|elmer|new|jersey
public|school|after|which|he|graduat|with|honor|at|the|south|jersey|in
stitut|of|bridgeton|this|state|after|four|year|of|studi|at|the|hahnemann
medic|colleg|of|philadelphia|he|obtain|the|degre|of|doctor|of|medi
cine|at|that|institut|sinc|then|he|has|taken|two|postgradu|cours
in|philadelphia|hospit|is|now|locat|on|havreford|avenu|and|give
promis|of|becom|a|skill|practition
the|subject|of|this|sketch|dr|j|p|cheesman|was|again|unit|in|mar
riag|april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|with|miss|sue|b|hannold|a|daughter|of|william|h
hannold|a|lead|citizen|of|swedesboro|by|this|marriag|there|are|two
children|william|hannold|born|novemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|who|was|the|valed
torian|of|his|graduat|class|at|the|elmer|high|school|and|was|a|graduat
in|the|class|of|one thousand, nine hundred|in|the|preparatori|depart|of|the|templ|colleg
of|philadelphia|where|his|name|has|been|place|on|the|roll|of|those|who
have|the|highest|averag|and|clementin|franc|born|may|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|who
was|the|salutatorian|of|the|one thousand, nine hundred|graduat|class|at|the|high|school|of|her
patern|home
dr|cheesman|is|one|of|the|most|energet|citizen|of|elmer|is|a|great
friend|of|educ|and|consequ|has|been|chosen|to|serv|on|the|board
of|educ|where|he|prove|veri|effici|he|has|alway|taken|an|activ
part|in|church|work|be|now|the|treasur|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|which|offic|he|has|held|for|the|past|twelv|year|for|sever|year
he|was|the|leader|of|the|church|choir|and|superintend|of|the|sunday
school|and|he|consid|noth|a|sacrific|that|will|further|the|becaus|of
religion
wilbert|b|hitchner
one|of|the|best|known|citizen|of|salem|countv|is|the|gentleman|of
whom|this|sketch|is|pen|but|in|this|particular|his|father|elam|hitchner
probabl|surpass|him|the|latter|who|is|yet|live|his|home|be|in
woodstown|is|one|of|the|veteran|stagedriv|of|this|region|who|for|year
convey|travel|to|penn|grove|yorktown|woodburi|red|bank|and
other|point|to|various|town|along|the|rout|he|follow|thus|he|becam
one hundred and twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
known|to|the|peopl|far|and|near|and|his|steri|integr|kind|cheer
manner|and|accommod|disposit|render|him|a|general|favorit|and
a|welcom|visitor|wherev|he|went|born|on|the|2ist|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|in
greenvill|new|jersey|he|is|now|approach|fourscor|year|but|his
mind|and|memori|of|past|event|and|experi|are|clear|and|he|is|an|en
tertain|convers|relat|numer|stori|of|men|who|have|pass
from|this|earth|stage|but|who|often|travel|with|him|to|and|fro|on|errand
of|busi|or|pleasur|in|his|earli|manhood|he|learn|the|trade|of|a
wheelwright|and|pursu|that|occup|dure|a|jart|of|the|four hundred and eight|nor|did
it|come|amiss|to|him|after|he|start|his|stage|line
elam|hitchner|is|the|onli|surviv|son|of|john|and|barbara|martin
hitchner|the|former|born|at|greenvill|new|jersey|his|onli|live|sister
are|eliza|the|wife|of|jame|reed|of|elmer|and|salom|sithen|of|philadel
phia|those|who|have|pass|to|their|reward|are|harriet|former|the|wife
of|jame|avi|of|deerfield|new|jersey|margaret|the|wife|of|preston|lip
pincott|and|henri|and|jacob|martha|hitchner|tlie|mother|of|our|subject
was|the|daughter|of|jacob|and|rachel|dilk|park
w|b|hitchner|was|born|in|woodstown|salem|counti|juli|five|one hundred and eighty-five|one
and|when|he|arriv|at|a|suitabl|age|lie|was|sent|to|the|public|school|of
that|town|there|acquir|an|excel|educ|he|made|the|most|of|his
opportun|and|was|onli|seventeen|year|old|when|he|obtain|a|certifi
cate|to|teach|after|teach|for|a|period|he|took|up|the|busi|of|grocer
in|woodstown|and|continu|in|that|line|for|near|six|year|dure|the
centenni|year|he|bought|the|yorktown|stage|line|of|wm|richmond|and
ran|stage|until|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|when|the|first|passeng|train|went|over
the|woodstown|swedesboro|branch|of|the|west|jersey|seashor|rail
road|then|newli|complet|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|act|as|the|head|clerk|in|the
general|store|of|joseph|read|for|a|few|month|at|the|expir|of|which
time|he|purchas|a|coal|busi|in|woodstown|and|sinc|has|ad|a
full|line|of|lime|cement|fertil|and|similar|necessari|he|has|built|up
an|excel|busi|and|enjoy|not|onli|the|patronag|but|also|the|confi
denc|of|the|public|to|an|enviabl|degre|he|is|a|director|and|treasur
of|the|local|build|associ|in|the|baptist|church|of|which|he|is|an
earnest|member|he|is|a|deacon|and|serv|as|the|presid|of|the|board|of
truste
on|the|29th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|mr|hitchner|marri|iari|e|mcal
tioner|daughter|of|joseph|and|mari|ann|mcaltion|but|their|life|to
gether|was|of|brief|durat|as|she|was|summon|to|the|silent|land|march
twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when|but|twentytwo|year|of|age|tlie|second|marriag|of|mr
hitchner|took|place|januari|two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|miss|hannah|s|reee|daughter|of
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and twenty-nine
elmer|and|mari|ann|reev|of|woodstown|be|the|ladi|of|his|choic
they|have|becom|the|parent|of|four|son|name|howard|cleveland
elmer|reev|georg|mcaltion|and|elam|martin
charl|d|lippincott
this|gentleman|who|is|the|senior|member|of|the|firm|of|lippincott
gaskil|merchant|of|swedesboro|was|born|in|harrison|township|glouc
ter|counti|new|jersey|septemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|is|a|son|of|chalkley|and
phoeb|deuu|lippincott|also|nativ|of|harrison|township|who|die|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|the|former|of|whom|was|age|seventysix|year|he|is|a|greatgrand
son|of|aaron|lippincott|and|greatgreatgrandson|of|benjamin|lippincott
who|with|his|brother|caleb|were|son|of|jacob|lippincott|the|latter|came
from|burlington|counti|new|jersey|at|an|earli|day|and|took|up|a|larg
tract|of|land|in|what|is|now|gloucest|and|salem|counti|new|jersey
upon|which|his|descend|locat|and|becam|extens|farmer|all|of
these|children|were|the|poster|of|richard|lippincott|an|english|puritan
who|came|to|boston|in|coloni|day|and|who|dure|some|religi|contro
versi|was|driven|from|that|place|and|return|to|england|later|he|re
turn|to|this|countri|and|settl|in|burlington|counti|new|jersey|he
had|ten|son|and|his|descend|are|numer
the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|what|is|now|harrison|township
gloucest|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and two|he|die|in|mullica|hill|novemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|they
had|eight|children|as|follow|ann|who|marri|thoma|l|borden|now
deceas|of|mickleton|new|jersey|beulah|who|was|the|wife|of|asa|engl
of|harrison|township|asa|a|farmer|in|harrison|township|hope|the|widow
of|benjamin|l|moor|of|harrison|township|adon|a|builder|and|contractor
live|at|asburi|park|charl|d|henri|a|carpent|resid|at|mullica
hill|and|amo|a|merchant|tailor|of|asburi|park
charl|d|lippincott|obtain|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|his
nativ|township|and|as|a|boy|did|much|hard|work|on|the|farm|with|mani
of|his|associ|he|respond|to|the|call|for|volunt|when|the|civil|war
broke|out|and|on|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|enlist|in|compani|f|twelfth|new
jersey|volunt|his|regiment|was|assign|to|the|armi|of|the|potomac
and|from|the|battl|of|fredericksburg|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|to|the|close|of
the|war|he|saw|acti|servic|he|was|sever|time|slight|wound|and
although|voung|in|vear|so|prove|his|courag|and|abil|that|he|rapid
rose|from|the|rank|until|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|was|made|captain|when|the|cruel
war|was|over|he|was|honor|discharg|juli|two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five
i30
biograph|histori|of|the|first
on|his|return|from|the|armi|mr|lippincott|purchas|the|old|home
stead|on|which|he|continu|farm|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|when|he|remov|to|swede
boro|and|engag|in|merchandis|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|admit|his|soninlaw
s|w|gaskil|as|a|partner|they|do|a|general|merchandis|busi|and
have|the|largest|and|best|appoint|store|in|swedesboro|their|success|be
due|not|onli|to|the|excel|of|the|stock|they|carri|but|also|to|the|repu
tation|they|have|earn|as|upright|and|trustworthi|men|mr|lippincott
is|the|presid|of|the|heat|light|power|compani|the|swedesboro
water|compani|and|the|lake|park|cemeteri|compani|and|also|is|the
secretari|of|the|lakesid|land|compani|all|institut|of|swedesboro
the|fact|that|his|associ|have|chosen|him|for|these|respons|posit
is|suffici|evid|of|his|abil|as|a|busi|man|and|of|his|high|stand
in|the|communiti|he|take|much|interest|in|the|scienc|of|botani|and
has|found|time|in|spite|of|his|multitudin|care|to|make|a|thorough|studi
and|an|almost|complet|collect|of|the|flora|of|gloucest|counti
mr|lippincott|was|marri|februari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|to|henrietta|a|daughter
of|samuel|h|weatherbi|of|harrison|township|and|they|have|three|chil
dren|luella|wife|of|s|w|gaskil|who|has|one|child|samuel|b|clarenc
is|a|salesman|in|the|employ|of|a|mine|suppli|hous|in|denver|colorado
martha|w|marri|c|w|justic|and|live|in|philadelphia|fratern|our
subject|is|a|member|of|the|osceola|lodg|no|seventy-five|l|o|o|f|of|swede
boro|and|polit|he|advoc|the|principl|of|the|republican|parti
he|is|a|loyal|citizen|interest|in|everyth|that|pertain|to|the|welfar|of
his|communiti|and|is|alway|readi|to|assist|in|philanthrop|enterpris
judg|harri|s|douglass
one|of|the|most|promin|member|of|the|bar|of|southern|new|jersey|is
judg|douglass|whose|analyt|mind|keen|percept|sound|judgment
and|comprehens|knowledg|of|the|scienc|of|jurisprud|have|made|him
one|of|the|distinguish|repres|of|the|legal|profess|in|this|part
of|the|state|he|resid|in|cape|may|court|hous|and|is|now|serv|as
the|judg|of|the|commonplea|court
he|was|born|in|cape|may|counti|septemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and|is|a|son|of
joseph|and|may|wood|garrison|douglass|his|patern|greatgrand
father|thoma|douglass|was|a|nativ|of|scotland|and|with|his|father|iex
ander|douglass|came|to|the|unit|state|locat|at|trenton|new|jer
sey|where|he|spent|his|remain|day|he|own|a|larg|amount|of|prop
erti|there|and|dure|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|manifest|his|loyalti|to|his|adopt
farni|yy|six
cogrfssioxil|district|of|xew|jerstv|one hundred and thirty-one
land|by|drive|a|team|in|the|american|armi|his|son|william|douglass
the|grandfath|of|the|judg|was|a|nativ|of|trenton|and|by|trade|was|a|boss
shipcarpent|he|built|a|number|of|ship|at|goshen|but|after|some|year
abandon|that|pursuit|and|turn|his|attent|to|farm|purchas|land
on|dia|creek|in|cape|lay|counti|in|his|polit|view|he|was|a|whig|in
earli|life|but|on|the|dissolut|of|the|parti|he|join|the|rank|of|the|new
republican|parti|he|was|three|time|marri|by|his|first|wife|mara|he
had|five|children|thoma|william|judi|marsey|and|alarv|bv|his|sec
ond|wife|deborah|there|were|no|children|for|his|third|wife|he|chose
achsah|hand|a|daughter|of|recompens|hand|one|of|the|hero|of|the
revolutionari|war|they|had|four|children|deborah|wife|of|thoma
sayr|rebecca|who|becam|the|wife|of|frank|ludham|and|afterward|mar
rie|theodor|corson|ann|wife|of|georg|benezet|and|josejih|the|grand
father|of|the|judg|die|at|the|age|of|eightysix|year|and|his|wife|pass
away|at|the|age|of|seventyf
the|matern|grandfath|nelson|garrison|was|born|in|cape|may
count|xew|jersey|and|in|his|busi|career|follow|farm|and|also
engag|in|busi|at|cape|lay|court|hous|as|a|dealer|in|boot|and|shoe
he|was|an|enterpris|merchant|and|his|abl|conduct|of|his|busi|interest
brought|to|him|gratifi|success|his|polit|support|was|given|the|re
publican|parti|and|in|his|religi|belief|he|was|a|methodist|he|marri
eliza|l|leam|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|mari
wood|mother|of|our|subject|nelson|a|farmer|of|erma|cape|may|counti
who|marri|rhoda|cress|and|after|her|death|wed|again|julia|who
marri|jame|fowler|and|after|his|death|becam|the|wife|of|isaac|p|john
ston|a|hotel|steward|in|cape|may|citi|william|l|who|wed|mari
sayr|and|follow|farm|at|erma|charl|f|who|marri|phoeb|hust
and|is|a|carpent|and|undertak|at|cape|may|court|hous|j|leaminf
a|farmer|of|erma|who|marri|hatti|cobb|and|eliza|deceas|the
father|of|these|children|die|at|the|advanc|age|of|eightyf|vear|and
the|mother|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|eightyfour
joseph|douglass|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|cape|iav|counti
on|dia|creek|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|in|the|common|school|acquir|his|educa
tion|he|has|devot|his|time|and|attent|to|farm|and|has|also|lieen
a|sea|captain|for|some|time|the|famili|resid|on|dia|creek|but|for|fif
teen|year|their|home|has|been|in|cape|may|court|hous|mr|douolass
is|a|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|is|a|lead|citizen|and|a
man|of|sterl|worth|who|enjoy|the|confid|and|esteem|of|his|mani
friend|he|marri|miss|garrison|and|the|record|of|their|children|is|as|fol
low|judg|harri|s|is|the|e|dest|theresa|is|the|second|of|the|famili
thirteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
nelson|g|who|is|connect|with|general|mine|interest|in|new|ork|citi
marri|adela|mason|and|has|three|children|granvill|b|gideon|and
theresa|joseph|jr|wdio|studi|law|with|judg|douglass|for|his|preceptor
and|is|now|practic|at|cape|may|court|hous|was|former|a|teacher
he|marri|hannah|stile|and|they|have|two|son|charl|and|herbert
eliza|g|deceas|was|the|wife|of|captain|robert|b|tliompson|a|sea|cap
tain|resid|in|cape|may|court|hous|gideon|h|is|also|deceas|and
chsah|the|youngest|of|the|famili|die|in|infanc
judg|douglass|acquir|his|elementari|educ|in|the|public|school
and|later|attend|the|salem|collegi|institut|and|pennington|seminari
he|studi|law|with|john|b|hoftman|as|his|tutor|at|cape|may|court|hous
and|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|was|admit|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
as|a|counselor|he|at|onc|began|practic|and|gradual|built|up|a|larg
busi|which|connect|him|with|much|of|the|import|litig|tri
in|the|court|of|his|district|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|appoint|by|governor|grigg
judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|and|is|now|serv|on|the|bench|he|is
most|fair|and|imparti|in|his|decis|which|show|a|thorough|understand
ing|of|the|case|and|a|comprehens|knowledg|of|the|law|applic|to|the
point|in|litig|he|practic|in|the|chanceri|and|suprem|court|and
is|an|abl|lawyer|his|keen|analyt|mind|enabl|him|to|determin|with
accuraci|the|strong|fact|in|his|suit|while|his|power|of|logic|and|of|argument
enabl|him|to|present|these|to|court|or|juri|in|a|way|that|never|fail|to|carri
weight|and|seldom|fail|to|gain|the|verdict|desir
the|judg|also|has|other|busi|interest|he|is|a|director|and|stock
holder|in|the|mechan|labor|build|loan|associ|of|cape
may|court|hous|the|state|mutual|build|loan|associ|and|is
the|secretari|and|treasur|of|the|branch|and|a|general|director|of|the|main
associ|he|is|also|a|director|of|the|build|loan|iutual|life|in
suranc|compani|of|camden|new|jersey
on|the|25th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|mr|douglass|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|eleuthera|smith|a|daughter|of|jame|smith|who|was|a|sea|cap
tain|init|is|now|deceas|his|first|wife|die|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six
and|on|the|ist|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|the|judg|was|again|marri|his|sec
ond|union|be|with|marian|s|a|daughter|of|elija|b|wheaton|a|retir
sea|captain|they|have|two|children|e|b|and|john|branin
in|his|polit|view|the|judg|is|a|stalwart|republican|and|keep|well
inform|on|the|issu|of|the|day|he|sens|as|postmast|of|cape|may
court|hous|dure|the|administr|of|presid|harrison|but|has|never
been|a|politician|in|the|common|accept|sens|of|the|term|social|he
is|connect|with|hereford|lodg|no|one hundred and eight|l|o|o|f|with|arbutus
congressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|one hundred and thirty-three
lodo|no|one hundred and seventy|f|a|m|and|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen
he|i|s|a|consist|and|faith|memler|of|the|methodist|episcop|church
in|which|he|is|now|serv|as|steward|and|truste|for|thirteen|year|a|dis
tinguish|member|of|the|legal|profess|honor|and|respect|m|everi
class|of|societv|judg|douglass|has|long|been|a|leader|in|thought|and|move
ment|in|the|public|life|of|southern|new|jersey|he|inspir|person
friendship|of|unusu|strength|and|all|who|know|him|have|the|highest|ad
mirat|for|his|good|cpialiti|of|heart|and|mind
charl|f|hitchner|i|d
the|gentleman|whose|sketch|it|is|our|privileg|to|present|to|our|reader
on|this|page|has|been|insepar|connect|with|the|prosper|and|up
build|of|the|thrive|littl|villag|of|elmer|for|mani|year|and|has|done
more|than|anv|other|citizen|to|give|it|a|stand|in|the|commerci|world
he|was|born|march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|on|the|old|homestead|which|later|becam|the
town|site|and|has|alway|retain|an|affect|and|interest|in|the|prosper
of|the|place|that|lia|led|him|to|put|forth|everi|effort|for|it|develop|and
success|his|father|was|daxid|hitchner|who|was|liorn|in|greenvill|this
counti|and|was|a|son|of|jacob|a|nativ|of|germani|david|hitchner|was
rear|to|a|farmer|s|life|and|follow|it|to|the|end|of|his|day|die|on|his
farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|margaret|sithen|by
whom|he|had|five|children|robert|hiram|a|farmer|of|this|vicin|whose
sketch|follow|this|elizabeth|wife|of|e|s|eastlak|of|deerfield|lari
wife|of|illiam|c|mckean|of|camden|and|our|subject|dr|c|f
dr|hitchner|spent|his|earli|life|on|his|father|s|farm|and|was|inur|to
hard|work|at|the|age|of|eighteen|year|he|enter|hudson|river|institut
as|it|was|his|desir|to|becom|someth|more|than|a|mere|tiller|of|the|soil
five|year|at|this|institut|but|whet|his|long|for|a|more|complet
educ|and|he|decid|to|enter|the|medic|profess|he|engag|m
teach|through|one|winter|at|somer|point|near|atlant|citi|and|then
went|to|philadelphia|where|he|enter|jefferson|medic|colleg|gradu
ate|with|a|class|of|one|hundr|and|fifti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|at|onc|return|to
the|home|of|his|boyhood|and|began|the|practic|of|his|chosen|profess
he|was|effici|and|skill|and|soon|won|the|confid|of|the|communiti
in|his|practic|so|that|he|had|all|the|busi|he|could|attend|to|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
after|fourteen|year|of|activ|work|he|retir|from|the|profession|practic
much|to|the|regret|of|tlios|who|had|come|to|depend|on|his|skill|and|judg
ment|in|all|question|of|bodili|i|will|he|belong|to|all|the|various|medic
one hundred and thirty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
societi|and|that|profess|met|with|great|loss|when|he|al|an|lonefl|lii
practic|he|inherit|one|hundr|acr|of|fine|land|in|the|town|of|elmer
near|the|depot|which|is|laid|out|in|town|lot|and|it|has|been|the|especi
care|of|the|doctor|to|improv|these|lot|and|make|them|desir|properti
the|street|of|the|villag|have|been|improv|by|thousand|of|shadetre
set|out|by|his|bounti|hand|while|the|number|of|manufactur|plant
which|he|has|induc|to|locat|here|is|almost|beyond|belief|the|first|to
come|was|the|cot|spindl|compani|which|employ|about|twentythre
men|and|which|locat|here|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|after|dr|hitchner|gave|them|a|bonus
to|do|so|then|in|the|follow|year|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|the|mcallist|foundri|employ
ing|eight|hand|was|given|a|bonus|and|came|to|this|villag|next|he|do
nate|the|ground|and|erect|a|build|for|the|canning|factori|and|induc
a|carpet|manufactur|hous|to|decid|this|was|the|best|field|for|their|jlant
the|hosieri|factori|came|here|at|a|cost|to|dr|hitchner|of|five|thousand
dollar|while|the|elmer|gazett|owe|it|start|to|his|generous|natur|as|he
erect|the|build|and|purchas|the|machineri|to|put|the|infant|industri
on|it|feet|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|gave|the|ground|and|three|thousand|dollar|against
five|hundr|by|the|citizen|for|the|elmer|glass|ork|which|give|employ
ment|to|seventyf|men|and|are|a|credit|to|the|communiti|the|brook
shoe|manufactur|compani|also|came|under|his|notic|and|he|furnish
the|ground|and|put|up|a|build|for|them|the|farmer|exchang|build
ing|was|erect|by|him|and|mani|other|enterpris|receiv|their|primari
impetus|from|him|and|their|financi|back|as|well|think|a|band
would|be|a|pleasur|and|add|to|the|attract|of|the|villag|the|elmer|band
was|organ|and|the|instrument|purchas|for|them|by|our|subject|a
shirt|factori|was|among|the|industri|induc|by|him|to|locat|here|but
they|were|a|shortliv|concern|he|built|a|hothous|and|put|in|a|boiler|as
an|induc|for|a|fiorist|to|engag|in|busi|here|and|has|been|a|readi
friend|of|the|communiti|in|all|case|thus|it|is|seen|that|the|doctor|has
done|an|immens|amount|for|the|villag|of|his|home
he|was|join|in|matrimoni|septemb|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|to|miss|emma|dexter
a|daughter|of|charl|dexter|of|mannington|township|who|was|at|one|time
a|member|of|the|legislatur|of|the|state|they|have|one|child|whose|name
is|florenc|m|dr|hitchner|was|former|a|memljer|of|most|of|the|local
fratern|societi|liut|has|not|been|in|communic|with|them|for|sever
year|he|was|presid|of|the|school|commiss|for|three|year|and|was
on|the|build|committe|of|both|the|presbyterian|and|methodist|church
and|has|contribut|in|no|small|way|toward|their|erect|it|can|truli|lie
said|that|he|has|made|the|villag|what|it|is|today|and|the|loe|and|admira
tion|which|is|accord|him|is|well|deserv
congression|district|of|xejv|jersey|one hundred and thirty-five
hirai|hitchner
hiram|hitchner|is|a|promin|farmer|who|resid|near|elmer|where|he
was|born|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|he|is|the|second|son|of|david|and|iargaret
sithen|hitchner|who|were|well|known|farmer|of|this|section|he|at
tend|the|common|school|of|his|nativ|district|and|after|finish|his|edu
cation|began|work|on|a|farm|he|resid|at|deerfield|for|a|short|time
and|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|move|upon|the|farm|of|one|hundr|and|twentysix
acr|now|occupi|by|him|he|carri|on|general|farm|and|keep|his
place|in|the|most|perfect|condit|everyth|show|the|thrift|and|indus
trv|of|the|owner
he|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|to|liss|martha|kane|by|whom|he|has|two
children|frank|a|resid|of|camden|this|state|and|bertha|who|is|at
home|they|are|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|in|which|he
has|been|an|ofific|mani|year|and|where|the|famili|are|zealous|worker
they|are|held|in|the|highest|estim|by|their|acquaint|and|are
among|the|most|influenti|citizen|of|the|counti
hammond|s|ireland
hammond|s|ireland|is|a|lead|merchant|of|williamstown|gloucest
counti|new|jersey|and|was|born|in|this|villag|septemb|eight|i860|he|is
a|son|of|edward|s|ireland|sr|who|has|retir|from|activ|busi|and|is
a|high|respect|resid|of|this|villag|his|father|william|was|a|son
of|daniel|ireland|who|resid|in|atlant|counti|where|william|was|born
william|ireland|was|a|farmer|and|lumberman|and|came|to|this|vicin|when
a|lad|of|sixteen|year|to|engag|in|that|busi|he|was|a|lead|member
of|the|methodist|church|hold|all|the|offic|in|the|organ|and|was
in|great|demand|at|reviv|and|other|public|meet|to|lead|in|sing
his|wife|was|sarah|wear|daughter|of|andrew|wear|of|sicklertown|and
nine|children|were|born|to|them|five|of|whom|are|live|all|of|this|place
they|are|daniel|edward|s|andrew|william|page|and|josiah
edward|s|ireland|was|born|may|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|on|the|same|lot|where|he|still
live|and|has|resid|dure|his|life|he|attend|the|common|school|of|his
nativ|town|and|began|as|a|wageearn|while|still|veri|young|he|engag
in|team|and|lumber|and|for|year|oper|a|mill|from|which|he|drew
a|neat|incom|he|is|a|veteran|freemason|and|odd|fellow|join|the
mason|at|bridgeton|and|the|odd|fellow|at|glassboro|he|is|now|live|in
retir|enjoy|the|fruit|of|a|well|spent|life|he|was|a|freehold|sur
one hundred and thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
veyor|of|highway|and|juryman|for|mani|consecut|year|he|has|been
marri|three|time|first|to|hannah|steelman|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|second|to
anna|beckett|who|die|in|i860|and|third|to|anna|p|simmerman|who
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|these|three|wive|bore|him|twehe|children|six|of|whom|are
live|name|william|a|resid|of|millvill|edward|s|of|mullica|hill
emma|the|wife|of|georg|fifer|of|this|villag|matilda|who|is|unmarri
hammond|s|our|subject|and|bell|the|wife|of|morgan|lutz|also|of|this
vicin
hammond|s|ireland|was|educ|in|the|public|school|but|put|asid
his|textbook|at|an|earli|age|to|do|battl|with|the|world|he|learn|the
trade|of|carpent|and|did|contract|for|nine|year|hile|he|was|a|skill
mechan|and|took|pride|in|turn|out|onli|the|best|work|yet|it|was|not
the|line|of|employ|which|would|appeal|to|him|as|strong|as|some
other|and|he|determin|to|enter|the|mercantil|field|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|start
in|his|present|busi|open|a|stock|of|general|merchandis|and|build
up|a|larg|trade|which|is|steadili|increas
mr|ireland|was|marri|januan|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|to|miss|emili|g|a|daughter
of|jonathan|peterson|of|this|neighborhood|and|they|have|one|child|walter
c|i|he|is|a|republican|in|polit|and|has|taken|an|activ|part|in|the|local
campaign|he|has|serv|as|a|truste|and|the|secretarj|of|the|methodist
episcop|church|to|which|he|belong|and|has|been|a|teacher|in|the|sun
dayschool|he|was|made|a|mason|at|qayton|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|becam
one|of|the|charter|member|of|williamstown|lodg|and|was|it|first|trea
johx|hitchxer
sir|hitchner|is|one|of|the|repres|and|reput|farmer|of|salem
counti|xew|jersey|and|has|resid|on|his|present|farm|near|alloway|for
mani|year|he|was|born|septemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|at|friesburg|and|is|a|son|of
john|and|sarah|johnson|hitchner|his|father|is|rememb|by|mani
of|the|older|resid|as|among|the|most|promin|of|the|counti|s|foremost
citizen
the|famili|is|of|german|origin|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|hav
ing|come|from|that|countri|to|america|with|his|famili|of|four|son|and|three
daughter|among|them|was|matthia|a|carpent|who|remain|unmar
rie|one|son|settl|in|what|was|then|pittstown|now|elmer|and|one|in
friesburg|georg|john|hitchner|was|bom|in|friesburg|where|he|con
tinu|to|make|his|home|was|a|promin|farmer|and|was|familiar|known
as|major|hitchner|have|been|elect|to|that|rank|in|the|militan|compani
n|ilsk
are
four
cftl|itj
congression|district|of|new|lersey|one hundred and thirty-seven
to|which|he|belong|he|was|the|fotmder|of|the|hitchner|tavern|which
he|conduct|mani|year|with|mark|success|on|the|premis|now|own
and|occupi|by|john|van|leer|his|energet|industri|and|thrift|soon
place|him|among|the|welltodo|peopl|of|that|time|and|he|was|high
esteem|by|his|neighbor|he|was|a|democrat|in|polit|and|in|religion
a|lutheran|his|first|wife|was|a|miss|miller|who|bore|him|the|follow
children|jacob|georg|martin|john|mari|mrs|john|koat|and|mar
garet|who|was|marri|to|mr|young|by|his|second|marriag|there|were
five|children|mari|ann|mrs|jonathan|wood|sarah|ann|mrs|daniel
johnson|lydia|ann|mrs|jacob|halter|samuel|and|levi
john|hitchner|sr|the|father|of|our|subject|enter|into|exist|on
the|old|farm|in|friesburg|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|and|there|grew|to|man|s|estat|he
live|on|one|hundr|and|twenti|acr|of|land|from|which|he|obtain
a|comfort|live|and|iwa|enabl|to|bring|up|his|famili|in|a|manner
befit|his|station|he|vote|with|the|democrat|parti|and|was|a|com
mitteeman|besid|hold|a|number|of|other|town|offic|as|a|lutheran
he|was|a|zealous|worker|in|that|bodi|and|contribut|with|a|generous|hand
he|marri|a|ladi|whose|maiden|name|was|sarah|johnson|and|by|whom|he
had|twelv|children|viz|johnson|a|farmer|deceas|marri|mari|colvin
and|left|seven|children|daniel|neal|gould|ed|georg|samuel|who|is|em
ploy|in|the|bridgeton|nation|bank|and|mari|who|has|three|children
lewi|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|was|a|well|known|farmer|he|is|surviv|by|his
wife|whose|maiden|name|was|elizabeth|moor|and|by|his|children
jacob|scott|lewi|lizzi|peacock|salh|miher|and|ruth|susanna
deceas|was|the|wife|of|isaac|van|leer|christiana|marri|william|rem
ster|a|miller|her|one|daughter|mari|j|marri|scott|grice|and|is|the
mother|of|two|children|matilda|marri|jeremiah|watson|a|farmer|and
mill|oper|mari|ann|was|the|wife|of|benjamin|garrison|a|farmer|and
both|are|deceas|eli|fallen|marri|mrs|theodosia|pierson|and|their
children|are|william|frank|philip|mrs|zaiser|mrs|hamilton|ella|erbin
and|charl|sarah|marri|john|mickl|a|farmer|john|is|the|subject|of
this|review|georg|is|individu|mention|elsewher|in|this|work|mar
garet|is|the|wife|of|samuel|batton|charl|deceas|marri|lizzi|tim
berman|and|had|four|children|john|maggi|bert|and|geneva|the|father
die|at|the|age|of|eightythre|year
john|hitchner|jr|remain|with|his|father|assist|him|in|the|farm
work|until|he|was|twentyseven|year|of|age|when|he|was|marri|and|be
gan|to|work|for|himself|he|bought|the|farm|which|he|later|sold|to|his
brother|and|upon|which|the|latter|still|resid|then|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|purchas
the|georg|remster|properti|and|sinc|that|time|has|oper|the|mill
one hundred and thirty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|plant|is|run|one|water|and|steam|power|and|both|merchant|and|custom
grind|are|done|there|in|addit|to|this|he|own|one|farm|in
remsterall|and|one|in|friesburg
februari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|he|was|marri|to|iari|r|a|daughter|of|anchew|s
and|rosanna|casper|johnson|farmer|of|friesburg|nine|children|were
the|fruit|of|this|wed|jeannett|born|februari|seventeen|i860|marri|john
hanthorn|a|machinist|of|philadelphia|emma|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|marri|elijah
fox|a|resid|of|camden|and|has|two|children|oscar|and|mari|sarah
deceas|marri|lesli|garrison|an|engin|and|also|had|two|children
mari|erma|and|sarah|theodor|who|is|a|miller|at|greenwich|marri
minni|smith|and|has|one|child|mari|susanna|marri|lewi|s|ayer|who
is|with|mr|hitchner|our|subject|in|the|mill|and|they|have|two|children
maud|and|nelli|lilli|marri|georg|jarmen|a|farmer|and|has|one
child|blanch|frank|a|farmer|marri|charlesanna|mickl|casper|is|un
marri|and|is|a|miller|and|ada|is|at|home|unmarri|mrs|hitchner|en
tere|into|etern|rest|on|august|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|at|the|age|of|fiftyseven|year
mr|hitchner|is|a|promin|democrat|and|has|been|activ|in|work
for|parti|interest|he|has|serv|as|assessor|on|committe|on|the|com
mission|of|appeal|as|freehold|etc|and|was|sent|to|repres|his|district
in|the|legislatur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|is|a|member|of|the|lutheran|church|and|of
auoway|lodg|lidepend|order|of|odd|fellow
j|d|souder
j|d|souder|deceas|a|late|and|high|respect|citizen|of|william
town|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|by|reason|of|his|promin|and|char
acter|veri|befit|find|a|place|in|the|biograph|histori|of|the|com
muniti|in|which|he|live|and|labor|so|mani|year
mr|souder|was|a|nativ|of|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|born|near
malaga|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|he|depart|this|life|in|the|rich|autumn|time|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|the
date|of|his|death|be|octob|4th|lawrenc|souder|his|patern|anc
tor|was|born|on|the|old|famili|homestead|in|the|same|section|of|countri
near|malaga|of|the|famili|of|souder|it|should|be|remark|that|three
brother|came|from|germani|one|settl|here|the|other|two|went|farther
west|lawrenc|was|a|farmer|and|lumberman|his|son|the|subject|of|this
memoir|spent|his|youth|day|as|most|boy|did|in|his|time|assist|his
parent|attend|the|then|but|poor|organ|subscript|and|possibl
district|or|public|school|and|enjoy|himself|in|hunt|fish|and|take
part|in|the|other|sport|and|game|of|youth|doulitless|he|of|whom|we
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and thirty-nine
write|was|a|duti|and|hardwork|boy|as|tlie|sequel|of|his|after|life|seem
to|conclus|prove|this|a|shiftless|indol|youth|seldom|if|ever|ma
ture|into|an|enterpris|wideawak|specimen|of|manhood|henc|the|con
clusion|we|have|drawn|concern|our|subject|s|earli|life|rather|than|from
ani|direct|data|upon|which|to|base|our|statement
the|first|busi|enterpris|we|learn|of|our|subject|engag|in|was|that
of|the|manufactur|of|barrel|hoop|in|pennsylvania|where|he|continu|ac
tive|engag|for|six|year|in|blair|counti|he|did|an|extens|busi
includ|the|oper|of|a|larg|general|store|and|employ|from|twenti
five|to|thirti|men|his|health|fail|him|and|he|move|to|philadelphia|and
there|engag|in|the|shoe|busi|remov|howev|to|illiamstown
xew|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|at|the|close|of|the|civil|war|here|he|engag|in|work
and|busi|more|suitabl|to|his|like|those|of|lumberman|and|farmer|in
a|moder|manner|by|his|good|busi|tact|and|frugal|way|he|amass
a|handsom|properti|he|was|a|selfmad|man|accumul|what|he|pos
sess|by|his|own|industri|and|toil|and|his|good|manag|it|should
be|here|state|that|his|father|was|the|first|man|to|make|sell|and|ship|the
smoothshav|hogshead|hoop|use|former|in|great|quantiti|in|the
sugar|district|of|the|west|indi|previous|all|hoop|were|ship|in|the
rough|as|cut|from|hickori|and|other|sapl|it|was|lawrenc|souder
who|first|ship|this|line|of|good|to|the|sugar|planter|of|cuba|and|other
west|india|island|our|subject|succeed|him|in|this|busi|and|also
ad|the|manufactur|and|export|of|shook
j|d|souder|was|a|member|and|strong|friend|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|and|live|an|exemplari|life|in|his|daili|walk|with|his|fellow|men
he|never|aspir|to|offic|but|it|is|relat|that|he|at|one|time|held|local
posit|such|as|township|truste|and|treasur|to|the|full|satisfact|of
his|townsmen
like|most|other|well|balanc|and|sensibl|men|our|subject|lieliev|in
the|sanctiti|of|the|true|home|and|famili|life|henc|it|was|that|on
may|three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|martha|e|kirbi|the|daughter
of|mr|and|mrs|william|kirbi|of|philadelphia|her|grandfath|was|a
soldier|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|the|famili|is|one|of|more|than|ordinari|promi
nenc|tlii|marriag|result|in|the|birth|of|six|children|four|of|whom|are
now|live|william|l|c|oscar|live|on|the|homestead|at|williamstown
martha|virginia|the|wife|of|dr|h|a|jelli|of|allentown|pennsylvania|and
anna|c|the|wdfe|of|henri|gloer|of|rochest|new|york
this|notic|but|give|a|faint|outlin|of|a|nobl|life|but|mav|serv|well
as|a|written|monument|to|the|memori|of|a|man|whose|everv|act|was|fraught
with|some|good|thought|or|deed|worthv|of|emul|to|those|who|mav
i40|biograph|histori|of|the|first
are
look|upon|these|page|in|jear|to|come|as|well|as|those|of|the|present|will
these|line|preserv|a|record|of|a|life|with|which|the|famili|of|this|and|after
generat|may|well|be|proud|to|be|connect
john|h|groff|m|d
for|a|quarter|of|a|centuri|dr|john|h|groff|has|been|activ|engag
in|the|practic|of|medicin|and|surgeri|at|penn|grove|salem|counti
and|seven|year|at|sharptown|and|among|those|of|his|profess|and|in|the
estim|of|the|general|public|no|one|stand|higher|in|this|section|of|the
state
the|birth|of|dr|groff|occur|threescor|year|ago|in|this|counti
and|in|earli|life|he|appli|himself|to|the|task|necessari|to|be|perform
upon|a|farm|he|continu|to|assist|his|father|until|more|than|a|year|had
elaps|sinc|he|had|come|to|legal|age|when|he|determin|to|enter|a
profess|his|father|charl|f|groff|was|a|nativ|of|lower|alloway
creek|salem|counti|and|was|rear|there|to|the|age|of|matur|earli
in|life|he|learn|the|tailor|s|trade|but|eventu|prefer|the|free
independ|outdoor|exist|of|an|agriculturist|he|becam|a|farmer
he|was|a|quiet|unassum|man|and|a|faith|memlier|of|the|baptist
church|he|was|summon|to|his|reward|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|when|he|was|seventynin
year|of|age|his|wife|whose|name|in|girlhood|had|been|harriet|hum
phrey|live|to|be|sixtythre|year|of|age|and|of|their|four|children|john
h|mari|r|anna|and|keziah|the|last|mention|onli|is|deceas
as|state|previous|dr|john|h|groff|conclud|that|he|would|not
follow|his|father|s|call|as|a|life|work|and|accord|in|the|begin|of
the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|enter|the|offic|of|dr|clawson|of|oodstown|new
jersey|and|commenc|the|studi|of|medicin|but|the|cloud|of|civil
war|gather|fast|gradual|encroach|upon|the|young|man|s|attent
thus|he|was|one|of|the|iirst|to|respond|to|his|countri|s|call|for|loyal|men
and|true|to|protect|the|union|and|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|his|name|was|enrol
as|a|privat|in|compani|i|captain|sinnickson|fourth|new|jersey|regi
ment|which|went|to|the|front|from|trenton|the|compani|to|which|the
doctor|belong|was|station|on|picket|duti|around|washington|d|c
until|the|time|of|it|enlist|was|out
return|home|our|subject|then|dexot|himself|assidu|to|his
studi|until|the|extrem|serious|posit|of|the|govern|again|made
itself|strong|felt|in|the|mind|of|all|he|reenlist|for|a|term|of|three
year|as|a|member|of|compani|h|twelfth|regiment|of|new|jersey
infantrv|and|continu|in|the|seric|until|the|close|of|the|war|dure
five
tmt|jy
j3
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and forty-one
the|import|battl|of|chancellorsvill|he|was|wound|m|the|left|forearm
bv|the|burst|of|a|she|will|and|as|a|result|of|that|and|the|necessari|oper
follow|the|arm|was|render|almost|a|useless|member|hen|he|had
recov|suffici|to|permit|of|his|be|place|on|duti|he|was|tran
fer|to|the|veteran|reserv|corp|and|sent|to|baltmior|for|duti|m
hospit|dure|his|term|of|seiic|there|the|surgeon|m|charg|of|the
hospit|kind|gave|him|his|time|and|permiss|to|pursu|his|studi
which|he|did|for|about|a|vear|under|the|direct|of|dr|j|h|butler|an
assist|surgeon|of|the|hospit|and|a|demonstr|of|anatomi|in|the
univers|of|marvland|in|this|institut|he|took|his|firstyear|cours|of
lectur|the|war|end|soon|after|and|he|was|discharg|from|the|ser
vice|after|a|short|visit|home|in|woodstown|new|jersey|he|return|to
baltimor|finish|his|studi|with|dr|butler|and|graduat|at|the|vm
versitv|there|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six
a|few|week|later|he|open|an|offic|at|sharptown|salem|counti
and|began|the|practic|of|his|love|profess|he|resid|there|seven
year|and|in|decemb|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|remov|to|penn|grove|salem|counti
where|he|has|enjoy|a|larg|and|lucrat|practic
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|dr|groft|marri|olivia|j|king|of|baltimor|who|is|a|ladi
of|excel|educ|and|attain|her|parent|were|livingston|and
elizabeth|dimmet|king|the|former|of|whom|is|deceas|dr|groff
who|is|quiet|and|reserv|in|manner|is|veri|high|esteem|by|those|who
know|him|well|and|is|a|member|of|the|mason|order
j|down|heritag|m|d
dr|t|down|heritag|a|promin|physician|and|surgeon|of|glassboro
new|jersey|was|born|septemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|in|hurffvill|washington|town
ship|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|and|his|patern|ancestor|thoma|j
heritag|was|also|a|nativ|of|the|same|place|as|well|as|our|subject|s|grand
father|josiah|heritag|and|his|greatgrandfath|benjamin|heritag
whose|father|richard|was|one|of|the|origin|proprietor|of|burlington
new|jersev|the|familv|still|possess|the|old|deed|of|the|land|upon|which
now|stand|the|citv|the|first|american|ancestor|of|the|quaker|faith
came|from|england|about|one thousand, six hundred|return|to|our|subject|s|father|thoma
j|it|may|be|said|that|he|was|a|methodist|in|his|religi|faith|and|that|he
serv|as|a|church|truste|for|mani|year|he|was|marri|to|chariti|a
dauohter|of|john|down|of|bethel|now|hurffvill|their|children|were|j
down|heritag|our|subject|ami|and|arthur|ami|marri|isaac|steven
son|the|mother|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|the|father|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three
one hundred and forty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
dr|heritag|our|subject|after|obtain|a|good|commonschool|edu
cation|attend|school|at|pennington|seminari|for|three|year|after|which
he|taught|for|two|year|he|graduat|at|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|was|soon|commiss|an|assist|surgeon|in|the|armi|after
practic|six|month|he|join|the|eleventh|new|jersey|volunt|which
regiment|was|a|part|of|the|armi|of|the|potomac|he|was|with|the|eleventh
for|three|year|sene|in|that|illustri|armi|dure|all|the|battl|march
and|campaign|in|which|it|took|part|in|the|rebellion|he|was|taken|prison
of|war|at|ream|s|station|virginia|and|held|in|libbi|prison|for|one|month
after|which|he|was|releas|at|the|close|of|the|war|dr|heritag|came
hom|e|and|began|to|practic|medicin|at|his|home|town|and|after|one|year
he|came|to|glassboro|he|belong|to|the|mason|order|and|at|one|time
was|quit|promin|in|the|knight|of|pythia|and|red|men|s|order|he
was|elect|to|the|ofific|of|grand|chancellor|of|the|knight|of|pythia|of
the|state|of|new|jersey|serv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|the|suprem|representa
tive|in|eighteen thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|in|keep|with|the|good|sens|of|everi|man|our|subject
was|marri|may|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|to|elizabeth|the|daughter|of|charl|shiver|of
swedesboro|three|children|have|come|to|brighten|their|home|dr|charl
s|at|home|christian|s|assist|superintend|of|the|pennsylvania|rail
road|at|alount|holli|and|sarah|a|at|home
our|subject|is|not|now|in|activ|practic|have|retir|and|given|the
work|over|to|his|son|dr|charl|s|heritag|when|he|was|in|practic|he
was|account|one|of|the|best|surgeon|in|his|part|of|the|state|it|was|he
who|prepar|the|articl|on|the|geolog|of|southern|new|jersey|for|a|late
histori|of|gloucest|salem|and|cumberland|counti|but|the|medic
work|will|not|suffer|becaus|his|son|is|a|learn|man|both|in|letter|and
scienc|and|a|skill|practition|and|surgeon|he|attend|and|gradu
ate|at|pennington|and|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
see|sketch|on|anoth|page|of|this|work
albert|m|seabrook
albert|isl|seabrook|the|abl|editor|and|proprietor|of|the|glassboro
enterpris|is|a|nativ|of|dutchess|counti|new|york|born|near|rhinebeck
april|i|one|eighty-six|one|of|his|famili|connect|it|may|be|said|that|his|father|was
samuel|s|seabrook|a|nativ|of|england|and|his|grandfath|was|an|epi
copal|clergyman|who|prepar|young|men|for|the|colleg|of|higher|learn
ing|samuel|s|seabrook|came|to|the|unit|state|about|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|locat
near|rhinebeck|new|york|where|he|had|charg|of|a|larg|dairi|farm
he|move|to|ineland|aliout|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|there|engag|in|farm|pursuit|he
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and forty-three
die|in|deerfield|cumlerland|counti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|his|wife|s
maiden|name|was|fanni|peater|she|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|sixtyf
year|by|their|union|four|children|were|born|arthur|p|of|deerfield|new
jersey|frank|of|centerton|our|subject|and|edwin|of|camden
after|leav|the|common|school|of|his|counti|our|subject|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five
graduat|at|the|trenton|state|normal|school|and|follow|teach|for
six|year|at|gibbstown|new|jersey|and|at|monroevill|the|same|state
have|an|ambit|to|enter|the|journalist|field|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|purchas
the|glassboro|enterpris|which|he|still|abli|conduct|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was
elect|a|justic|of|the|peac|which|place|he|still|fill|with|credit|to|himself
and|to|those|who|have|busi|with|him|he|is|an|activ|member|of|the
rvlethodist|church|and|a|sabbathschool|worker|he|is|one|of|the|church
steward|and|the|presid|of|the|epworth|leagu|also|the|first|vicepresi
dent|of|the|bridgeton|district|leagu|in|fratern|matter|he|is|connect
with|the|junior|order|of|unit|american|mechan|and|the|daughter|of
liberti
june|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|mari|d|the|daughter|of
john|johnson|and|wife|of|gibbstown|new|jersey|one|child|byron|m
came|to|bless|their|home|circl|imr|seabrook|is|an|enterpris|well|in
form|gentleman|whose|aim|in|the|newspap|field|is|to|give|the|patron
of|his|paper|the|latest|news|in|his|part|of|the|state|noth|but|clean|sen
sibl|editori|ever|come|from|his|journalist|pen
c|l|duffel|m|d
dr|c|l|duffel|a|lead|physician|and|surgeon|of|clayton|new|jer
sey|is|a|nativ|of|camden|of|the|same|state|his|greatgrandfath|came
from|holland|to|this|countri|and|settl|in|cumberland|counti|new|jer
sey|and|becam|a|glassmanufactur|among|the|first|in|the|countri
david|duffel|the|father|of|our|subject|was|also|born|in|camden|was|a
merchant|in|that|town|and|about|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|was|admit|into|the|new|jersey
confer|as|a|methodist|minist|he|serv|the|church|faith|mani
year|and|die|in|clayton|in|1s84|he|marri|into|the|hawley|famili|of
connecticut
our|subject|dr|duffel|attend|the|common|school|and|also|pen
ton|seminari|graduat|at|jefterson|colleg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|immedi|after
leav|colleg|he|join|the|fiftyfirst|pennsylvania|regiment|as|assist
surgeon|and|serv|his|countri|for|three|year|see|much|hard|and|activ
servic|he|was|with|pope|in|virginia|was|in|tennesse|and|with|general
one hundred and forty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
grant|at|vicksburg|as|well|as|in|the|potomac|campaign|no|soldier|saw
more|of|that|terribl|civil|conflict|than|did|this|man|of|whom|we|now|write
after|peac|had|been|establish|he|return|and|took|up|his|practic|at|wil
liamstown|new|jersey|five|year|afterward|he|went|into|the|bodin|glass
work|but|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|resum|the|practic|of|medicin|at|clayton|where
he|has|been|veri|success|in|all|branch|especi|in|surgeri|and|obstet
ric|he|has|been|on|the|board|of|educ|for|year|and|is|now|the|presi
dent|have|serv|for|fifteen|year|he|is|the|medic|inspector|for|the
board|of|health|in|religi|matter|he|is|an|activ|methodist|and|hold
mani|oiifici|place|be|wide|known
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|the|doctor|marri|phoeb|a|daughter|of|john|f|bodin|of
williamstown|they|were|of|an|old|famili|in|this|section|her|grandfath
start|the|glasswork|at|williamstown|mani|year|ago|mr|and|mrs
duffel|are|the|parent|of|two|children|one|is|deceas|and|the|other|is
marri|to|w|s|sinickson|who|is|a|cloth|dealer|in|salem|new|jersey
and|one|of|the|most|activ|busi|men
the|communiti|in|which|our|subject|live|and|practic|the|heal|art
veri|much|prize|him|besid|be|a|skill|physician|he|is|an|influenti
and|honor|member|of|societi|the|servic|he|render|his|countri|when
in|peril|of|war|will|never|be|forgotten
uriah|gilman|m|d
a|promin|physician|and|surgeon|of|woodstown|dr|uriah|gilman
is|a|patriot|have|serv|his|countri|well|in|time|of|peac|and|dure|the
troublous|day|of|war|he|stand|high|in|his|chosen|profess|which|he
has|follow|in|this|town|for|more|than|three|decad|and|mani|of|the|best
famili|of|this|vicin|are|number|among|his|patron
the|eldest|of|the|seven|children|of|richard|f|s|and|ann|taylor|gil
man|the|doctor|was|born|septemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|in|upper|penn|s|neck|town
ship|salem|counti|his|father|whose|birth|occur|in|roadston|cum
berland|counti|new|jersey|april|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|was|a|farmer|by|occup
though|in|his|earli|manhood|he|learn|the|trade|of|watchmak|with|the
intent|of|follow|that|vocat|he|manag|a|valuabl|homestead
situat|in|upper|pittsgrov|township|and|in|addit|to|rais|a|general
line|of|crop|common|to|this|region|he|dealt|extens|in|livestock|and
met|with|a|fair|degre|of|success|in|his|various|busi|transact|al
though|his|educ|advantag|had|been|limit|to|those|afford|by|the
district|school|he|possess|sound|practic|commonsens|and|was|con
congressioix|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and forty-five
sider|to|be|a|man|of|except|intellig|religi|he|was|a|baptist
and|had|deepli|at|heart|the|upbuild|and|progress|of|the|church|death
call|him|to|his|reward|on|new|year|s|day|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|in|the|follow|sum
mer|in|jtili|his|devot|wife|also|enter|the|silent|land|she|was|a|daugh
ter|of|damon|and|mari|ann|smith|taylor|of|pittsgrox|township|salem
counti|the|father|who|was|a|farmer|took|a|lead|part|in|the|build
of|the|baptist|church|at|woodstown|in|the|earli|part|of|the|centuri|and
though|he|was|a|young|man|with|his|own|way|to|make|in|the|world|and
with|a|famili|to|rear|and|provid|for|he|contribut|fifti|dollar|in|cash
and|more|than|that|amount|besid|in|work|on|the|structur|he|was|onli
forti|year|of|age|at|the|time|of|his|death|yet|he|had|accomplish|more
for|the|last|good|of|his|communiti|than|mani|of|his|neighbor|much
older|than|he|had|done|he|rear|two|son|john|and|david|who|was
engag|in|the|practic|of|medicin|in|arkansa|and|eventu|die|in|cali
fornia|on|the|patern|side|of|the|famili|our|subject|had|five|uncl|and
one|aunt|name|stratton|abram|benjamin|lemuel|ephraim|and|eliza
beth|all|of|whom|are|deceas|his|own|brother|and|sister|are|damon
taylor|richard|s|john|taylor|stratton|and|mari|a|who|marri|joseph
r|humphrey|all|of|the|number|are|deceas|damon|t|who|was
wound|at|the|battl|of|morton|s|ford|and|the|wilder|virginia|was
a|member|of|compani|a|twelfth|xew|jersey|olunt|dure|the|war|of
the|rebellion
after|complet|his|districtschool|studi|dr|oilman|attend|the
woodstown|and|bridgeton|school|for|a|period|after|which|he|pursu|a
threeyear|cours|at|the|west|jersey|academi|then|go|to|arkansa
he|read|medicin|with|his|uncl|david|taylor|of|rocki|comfort|littl
river|counti|with|this|foundat|he|return|to|the|east|and|matricul
as|a|southern|student|at|the|jefferson|medic|colleg|of|philadelphia|where
he|was|graduat|with|a|degre|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|the|great|civilwar|issu|was|at
hand|and|while|he|was|on|his|way|to|the|west|onc|more|he|found|at
cincinnati|that|the|postal|line|were|practic|close|between|the|north
and|the|south|and|he|retrac|his|step|to|his|old|xew|jersey|home
learn|that|dr|john|wiley|of|cape|may|court|hous|had|enter|the
union|servic|as|the|surgeon|of|the|sixth|regiment|of|this|state|he|took
up|his|practic|which|he|carri|on|success|for|about|a|year|then
resist|no|longer|his|earnest|desir|to|do|all|in|his|power|for|his|stricken
countri|he|enlist|with|the|twelfth|regiment|staft|as|surgeon|and|con
tinu|to|act|in|that|capac|until|the|close|of|the|war|he|was|at|the
post|of|duti|dure|the|fierc|battl|of|chancellorsvill|cold|harbor
petersburg|deep|bottom|gettysburg|auburn|and|bristo|station|mor
one hundred and forty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ton|s|ford|wilder|spottsylvania|court|hous|mine|explos|xorth
bank|of|the|jame|river|ream|s|station|fort|sedgwick|hatcher|s|run
and|boydton|plank|road|he|also|spent|six|week|in|the|seminari|hos
pital|georgetown|d|c|the|date|of|his|enlist|was|august|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two
and|his|honor|discharg|was|grant|june|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|soon|after|he|left
the|armi|the|doctor|enter|the|revenu|seric|and|for|one|year|was
detail|on|duti|on|board|the|revenu|cruiser|lincoln|at|the|end|of
which|time|he|return|to|this|state|via|the|nicaragua|rout|he|locat
in|woodstown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|sinc|which|year|he|has|been|regular|engag|in
practic|his|love|for|the|boy|who|wore|the|blue|has|never|wane|and
for|year|he|was|veri|activ|in|the|grand|armi|organ|be|the
command|of|the|john|g|fortin|post|no|fifty-seven|dure|the|last|year|of
it|exist
in|social|circl|of|this|place|and|elsewher|he|is|deserv|popular
as|is|also|his|estim|wife|a|marriag|ceremoni|celebr|feliruari
four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|unit|the|destini|of|dr|gilman|and|miss|keziah|richman|a
daughter|of|abram|and|clarissa|duboi|richman|the|father|was|a
welltodo|farmer|of|richman|s|mill|own|valuabl|properti|and|mill|in
that|local|the|doctor|and|wife|are|member|of|the|presbyterian|church
of|woodstown|and|take|an|influenti|part|in|all|local|philanthrop|work
john|woolson|reev
this|gentleman|who|is|now|abli|and|faith|serv|as|the|sheriff|of
cape|jviay|counti|and|make|his|home|at|cape|may|court|hous|is|a|rep
resent|of|one|of|the|old|and|promin|famili|of|this|local|prior
to|the|war|of|the|revolut|there|came|to|cape|may|counti|from|cumber
land|counti|new|jersey|three|brother|adonijah|abraham|and|aliijah
reev|tlie|first|name|was|three|time|marri|and|though|he|had|seeral
children|none|of|his|descend|are|now|live
abijah|reev|the|third|brother|was|born|in|cumberland|counti|new
jersey|in|the|year|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|and|came|to|cape|may|counti|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|in|his
fiftieth|year|he|marri|miss|merci|hand|who|was|twentyseven|year|of
age|and|a|resid|of|cape|may|counti|they|had|four|son|and|two|daugh
ter|name|abraham|david|andrew|h|joshua|h|sarah|and|merci
but|the|last|name|die|in|infanc|the|youngest|son|was|the|father
of|our|subject|abijah|reev|was|a|soldier|in|the|revolutionarv
war|and|was|a|member|of|captain|joshua|townsend|s|compani|of
militia|in|the|war|of|eighteen|twelve|this|compani|consist|of|brave|and|hardi|men
m
congressiox|district|of|nfjj|jersey|one hundred and forty-seven
inur|to|toil|and|fearless|of|danger|and|to|them|caji|may|count|will
ever|owe|a|debt|of|gratitud|for|the|seric|they|render|abijah|reev
die|in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|year|and|his|wife|pass
away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year|their|remain|were|inter
in|the|cold|spring|cemeteri
joshua|h|reev|the|fourth|son|of|abijah|and|merci|hand|reev
was|bom|in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|juli|twenty-two|i8o8|and|at|an
earli|age|was|apprent|to|isaac|whildin|to|learn|the|shoemak|s|trade
he|complet|his|apprenticeship|but|the|busi|did|not|agre|with|his
health|and|accord|he|enter|the|employ|of|a|neighbor|farmer
enoch|edmund|who|iro|to|him|a|most|faith|friend|joshua|h
reev|was|a|man|of|the|highest|charact|strictest|integr|and|honoralil
in|all|his|deal|he|was|a|kind|father|but|firm|in|famili|disciplin|alway
a|model|in|his|person|appear|care|exact|in|dress|and|toilet|he
thus|exemplifi|the|maxim|that|cleanli|is|next|to|godli|at|the
age|of|thirtytwo|mr|reev|becam|a|member|of|the|cold|spring|presbi
terian|church|and|was|up|to|the|time|of|his|death|one|of|it|most|consist
attend|he|was|a|strong|advoc|of|the|temper|becaus|be|the
presid|of|the|order|of|son|of|temper|the|great|destrov|in
fluenc|of|drink|were|just|then|begin|to|fasten|themselv|upon|the
public|with|conclus|convict|and|he|was|one|of|the|first|to|take|an|activ
step|in|the|solv|of|one|of|the|greatest|social|problem|that|confront|our
govern|he|was|one|of|the|origin|founder|of|the|cape|sundav
school|and|for|mani|year|labor|in|it|interest|at|the|time|of|his|death
he|was|serv|as|it|superintend
on|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|joshua|h|reev|was|marri|to|eleanor|woolson
and|to|them|were|born|seven|son|and|four|daughter|as|follow|david
born|octob|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|swain|s|born|juli|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|andrew|h|bom
may|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|john|w|born|decemb|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|charl|w|born|janu
ari|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|joshua|h|jr|born|decemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|mari|e|born|janu
arv|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|georg|h|born|januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|ann|e|born|decemb
twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|eliza|w|born|juli|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|anni|m|born|septemb
nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|the|father|of|these|children|die|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|age
fortyseven|and|the|mother|august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|ripe|age|of|eightvfiv
year
john|woolson|reev|the|fourth|son|of|joshua|and|eleanor|reev
the|well|known|sheriff|of|cape|may|counti|is|the|subject|of|our|sketch
mr|reev|is|a|nativ|of|lower|township|and|has|resid|within|the|counti
all|his|life|advers|circumst|earli|forc|him|to|depend|upon|him
self|as|his|father|suffer|a|stroke|of|paralysi|from|which|he|never|recov
one hundred and forty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ere|when|our|subject|was|onli|thirteen|year|old|and|he|was|oblig|to
leav|school|in|order|to|provid|for|his|mother|younger|brother|and|sister
consequ|his|educ|privileg|were|veri|limit|his|first|em
ployment|was|that|of|a|farm|hand|when|fourteen|year|of|age|in|which
capac|he|serv|until|he|reach|his|major|as|compens|for
his|servic|for|the|first|few|year|he|receiv|onli|board|and|cloth|but
later|earn|a|salari|of|six|to|nine|tlollar|per|month|while|assist|in
the|support|of|his|mother|and|younger|children|of|the|famili|the|civil|war
broke|out|and|respond|to|his|countri|s|call|he|enlist|in|compani|f
twentyfifth|regiment|new|jersey|volunt|august|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|was
muster|in|at|bever|this|state|on|the|first|of|septemb|and|serv
under|the|command|of|captain|david|blenkow|and|colonel|andrew|dur
ham|his|compani|be|compos|of|a|hundr|men|from|cape|may
counti|they|join|the|armi|of|the|potomac|under|general|burnsid
but|soon|after|this|mr|reev|was|stricken|with|scarlet|fever|and|sent|to
fairfax|hospit|subsequ|be|transfer|to|the|philadeljihia|hos
pital
after|return|from|the|war|mr|reev|engag|in|farm|upon|the
old|homestead|in|connect|with|sever|other|busi|interest|he
was|associ|in|the|build|and|own|of|a|number|of|vessel|for|coast
trade|purpos|and|was|extens|engag|in|the|ship|of|gravel|to
philadelphia|and|other|port|the|gravel|busi|at|that|time|was|a|big
industri|he|also|bought|consider|real|estat|and|erect|a|number
of|resid
from|the|time|mr|reev|cast|his|first|ballot|up|to|the|present|he|has
taken|a|live|interest|in|polit|and|has|serv|his|counti|in|mani|and
various|posit|of|trust|like|all|the|other|member|of|the|famili|he|is
and|alway|has|been|a|stanch|support|of|the|principl|of|the|republican
parti|he|has|lieen|the|township|committeeman|for|lower|township
was|a|member|of|the|board|of|chosen|freehold|for|ten|year|act|as
the|director|of|that|bodi|dure|the|last|five|dure|which|time|the|counti
almshous|was|erect|at|a|cost|of|seventeen|thousand|dollar|and|has
serv|as|a|member|of|the|counti|board|of|elect|whose|duti|is|to
examin|and|appoint|all|elect|board|and|for|three|year|was|it|chair
man|he|has|also|serv|in|sever|other|minor|offici|capac
mr|reev|has|been|tender|the|nomin|for|counti|clerk|and|for
both|branch|of|the|legislatur|but|all|have|been|declin|in|novemb
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|elect|the|sheriff|of|cape|may|counti|his|oppon|be
stilwel|h|townsend|he|did|not|seek|the|offic|and|was|onli|induc|to
accept|the|nomin|after|repeat|solicit|elect|by|a|good|ma
congressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|one hundred and forty-nine
joriti|he|is|now|serv|in|that|posit|faithfnlli|perform|his|duti
for|no|trust|repos|in|him|has|ever|been|l|ietray|in|the|slightest|degre
he|has|ahvav|labor|earnest|to|promot|the|growth|and|insur|the
success|of|his|parti|has|been|a|deleg|to|various|convent|and|for
three|year|was|the|chairman|of|the|republican|counti|convent|his
polit|cours|has|ever|been|most|honor|and|has|command|the
respect|of|those|of|opposit|polit|faith|mr|reev|busi|interest
have|been|vari|and|quit|success|he|is|progress|energet|and
practic|qualiti|which|when|direct|by|good|busi|judgment|never
fail|to|bring|success|what|he|undertak|he|carri|forward|to|success
complet|and|through|legitim|channel|of|trade|has|accumul|a|well
merit|compet|mr|reev|is|a|member|and|director|of|the|cape
may|save|fund|build|loan|associ|the|mechan|labor
build|loan|associ|a|director|of|the|cape|may|agricultur|asso
ciation|and|a|member|of|the|ancient|order|of|ltnite|orkmen|and|the
john|mecray|post|no|forty|g|a|r
mr|reev|was|rear|in|the|presbyterian|faith|be|a|pewdiold
of|the|old|brick|church|at|cold|spring|where|he|has|attend|all|his|life
the|becaus|of|educ|and|temper|find|in|him|a|strong|advoc|and
he|withhold|his|support|from|no|movement|or|measur|which|is|calcu
late|to|promot|the|welfar|of|the|communiti|along|materi|intellectu
social|and|moral|line
on|the|3d|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|mr|reev|marri|miss|emma|l|a|daugh
ter|of|john|x|xott|who|was|of|english|birth|and|educ|and|who
becam|a|schoolteach|in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|four
son|have|been|born|of|this|union|andrew|higgin|the|eldest|is|en
gage|in|the|drug|busi|at|tuckerton|n|j|he|receiv|his|educ
at|the|west|cape|may|academi|and|later|attend|the|philadelphia|colleg
of|pharmaci|in|philadelphia|david|leroy|the|second|son|is|a|practic
attorney|at|the|bar|of|philadelphia|he|prepar|for|colleg|at|south
jersey|institut|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|subsequ|enter|lafay
ett|colleg|at|easton|pennsylvania|he|read|law|in|the|offic|of|the
firm|of|gendel|reev|attend|the|lnivers|of|pennsylvania|law
school|at|the|same|time|he|was|admit|to|the|bar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|has
offic|with|his|preceptor|in|the|crozer|build|one thousand, four hundred and twenty|chestnut|street
philadelphia
he|marri|katherin|cornel|tallman|and|two|children|have|been|born
to|them|john|woolson|and|howard|gendel|abram|carl|the|third|son
is|still|a|student|have|an|unusu|strong|artist|instinct|he|is|pre
pare|hin|self|for|a|life|work|in|art|and|is|now|pursu|his|third|year|in
one hundred and fifty|biograph|histori|op|the|pirst
tlie|cours|of|fine|and|appli|art|at|the|school|of|draw|paint|and
model|of|the|drexel|institut|samuel|winchest|the|youngest|son
is|a|member|of|the|unit|state|marin|corp|and|is|station|at|fort
mififlin|pennsylvania
eugen|waa|m|d
the|name|of|this|gentleman|is|inscrib|high|on|the|roll|of|new|jersey|s
emin|medic|practition|and|his|stand|in|the|profess|is|shown
b|the|fact|that|he|is|now|accord|the|largest|practic|given|to|ani|physi
cian|of|ca|ie|may|count|for|more|than|twenti|year|he|has|given|to
his|duti|as|a|repres|of|the|call|his|close|and|undivid|atten
tion|and|he|is|remark|skill|in|the|exercis|of|import|function
which|are|demand|by|the|heal|art|ad|to|his|natur|abil|was
his|care|prepar|for|tiie|work|and|he|has|never|yet|ceas|to|be|an
earnest|and|dilig|student|of|the|scienc|of|medicin|thus|has|he|gain
prestig|and|prosper|and|in|the|histori|of|his|adopt|counti|he|well
deserv|honor|mention
the|doctor|was|born|in|kirkwood|broom|counti|new|york|sep
temljer|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|and|is|a|son|of|dr|palmer|m|and|ann|amelia|wilson
wa|he|pursu|his|literari|educ|in|the|i|ublic|school|of|the|empir
state|and|in|caji|may|count|and|after|determin|to|devot|his|attent
to|the|medic|profess|he|enter|the|jeiterson|medic|colleg|of
philadelphia|in|which|he|was|graduat|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|on|the|complet|of
a|threeyear|cours|thus|prepar|for|the|practic|of|medicin|he|open
an|offic|in|south|seavill|cape|may|counti|where|he|remain|for|three
year|when|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|came|to|dennisvill|where|he|has|sinc|made|his
home|from|the|legin|his|practic|has|steadili|and|constant|increas
until|it|has|now|assum|extens|proport|bring|him|a|reput
secoml|to|none|in|the|counti|he|is|well|vers|in|all|depart|of|the
scienc|of|medicin|and|has|also|taken|a|cours|in|pharmaci|receiv
from|the|state|board|a|diploma|he|has|been|for|two|year|a|member|of
the|pension|board|at|bridgeton|and|devot|one|day|each|week|to|his|work
in|that|connect|be|associ|on|the|board|with|dr|s|m|wilson|of
bridgeton|and|dr|m|foulken|of|vineiand|their|district|compris
the|greater|part|of|the|congression|district|the|doctor|is|a|frequent|and
valu|contributor|to|a|number|of|the|lead|medic|journal|and|is|a|mem
ber|of|the|cape|may|counti|medic|societi|the|new|jersey|state|medic
societi|and|the|american|medic|associ|he|is|a|member|of|the
board|of|health|of|dennisvill|and|has|been|a|health|inspector|for|ten|year
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and fifty-one
on|the|17th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|dr|way|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
mari|adam|a|daughter|of|exsherifif|albert|adam|of|south|seavill
four|children|were|born|to|them|clarenc|a|student|in|the|peddi|institut
in|heightstown|new|jersey|and|jessi|fanni|and|sara|at|home|tlie
doctor|is|connect|with|some|civic|societi|be|a|member|of|the
knight|of|pythia|fratern|at|dennisvill|and|of|the|independ|order
of|odd|fellow|at|cape|may|court|hous|he|has|long|been|a|faith
member|of|the|baptist|church|in|which|he|has|held|all|the|offic|includ
those|of|deacon|truste|and|church|clerk|he|has|written|a|histori|of|the
church|a|work|of|thirti|page|give|an|account|of|it|progress|and|work
through|one|hundr|and|seventi|year|he|is|a|man|of|broad|humani
tarian|principl|and|deep|sympathi|and|his|spirit|of|help|is|often
manifest|but|alway|unostentatiouslv
a|b|woodruff|m|d
dr|a|b|woodruff|of|elmer|salem|counti|new|jersey|has|been|a
practic|physician|of|this|counti|for|more|than|twenti|year|and|is|the
lead|practition|in|this|section|occupi|a|place|second|to|none|in|the
affect|of|the|peopl|he|was|born|at|bridgeton|cumberland|counti
this|state|june|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|in|the|spot|where|his|father|was|born|and|about
two|mile|from|the|birthplac|of|his|grandfath|he|is|a|son|of|isaac|d
woodruff|who|was|born|in|this|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|he|was|a|resid|of
hopewel|township|they|were|a|famili|of|farmer|the|son|isaac|d|the
father|of|mr|woodruff|follow|the|same|occup|and|accumul
a|moder|fortun|he|was|a|pleasant|easytemp|man|who|made
mani|friend|and|his|upright|honor|conduct|won|univers|respect|he
unit|with|the|presbyterian|church|and|strove|to|regul|his|everyday
life|accord|to|it|precept|he|marri|miss|hannah|brook|of|green
wich|cumberland|counti|a|daughter|of|alpheus|brook|she|is|now|in|her
seventieth|year|and|becam|the|mother|of|five|children|three|of|whom|are
still|live|they|are|dr|a|b|ella|mrs|frank|tice|and|hannah|mrs
harvey|haven|both|sister|resid|in|the|vicin|of|bridgeton|the
father|pass|gentl|away|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|just|as|natur|was|don|her
autumn|garb|preparatori|to|take|her|winter|s|rest
dr|woodruff|attend|the|common|school|and|west|jersey|academi
at|bridgeton|he|then|secur|a|posit|in|whippl|s|drug|store|where
he|remain|three|year|and|there|receiv|the|nucleus|of|that|educ|in
which|he|afterward|perfect|himself|by|a|cours|in|the|univers|of|penn
sylvania|locat|at|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|had|complet|the|fouryear
one hundred and fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
cours|and|graduat|at|the|institut|with|the|degre|of|m|d|when|he
at|onc|return|to|his|nativ|town|and|began|the|practic|of|his|chosen
profess|he|remain|there|three|year|and|was|meet|with|success
but|decid|a|better|scope|was|offer|for|his|work|in|some|other|local
and|accord|move|his|offic|to|elmer|where|he|has|continu|sinc
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|work|his|way|up|from|a|humbl|begin|to|one|of|the|largest
and|most|lucrat|practic|in|the|counti|his|area|of|patronag|is|not
confin|to|this|particular|local|but|has|extend|over|a|wide|rang|of
countri|where|his|reput|had|preced|him|he|travel|over|long|dis
tanc|to|care|for|his|case|and|it|requir|three|hors|to|carri|him|over
his|round|he|has|been|most|care|in|his|diagnosi|of|diseas|and
skill|in|his|treatment|meet|with|the|happiest|result|win|word|of
commend|and|prais|from|even|those|who|do|not|agre|with|his
method|he|is|a|genial|cheeri|kindheart|sympathet|man|whose
veri|presenc|in|the|sickroom|inspir|the|afflict|with|courag|and|hope
and|mani|an|unfortun|poor|famili|has|reason|to|bless|his|ministr
as|well|as|the|famili|of|wealth|he|is|a|general|practition|and|keep
well|up|with|the|time|on|all|the|latest|and|most|approv|discoveri|in|the
scienc|of|medicin|appli|this|knowledg|whenev|it|seem|desir
to|do|so|while|a|veri|busi|man|the|doctor|is|deepli|interest|in|all
local|affair|and|is|readi|to|assist|in|ani|way|in|his|power|the|promot|of
municip|growth|and|prosper|he|is|a|member|of|the|differ|metlic
societi|and|of|the|board|of|trade
octob|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|marri|miss|anna|a|daughter|of|charl|ashcroft
who|was|a|sea|captain|and|their|four|children|are|gertrud|lice|charl
and|isaac
georg|h|wainwright
georg|hanson|wainwright|a|design|of|merit|who|is|well|known|to
all|larg|carpet|hous|is|a|nativ|of|kidderminst|worcestershir|eng
land|his|natal|day|be|februari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|his|parent|were|jame|and
clara|hanson|wainwright|nativ|of|tamworth|and|birmingham|respec
tive|the|patern|grandfath|was|a|resid|of|tamworth|stafford
shire|england|and|was|note|as|a|man|of|great|strength|and|endur
he|live|to|reach|an|extrem|age|and|retain|the|use|of|all|his|faculti
in|their|vigor|until|the|last|he|was|rear|in|the|episcop|faith|and|was
an|earnest|christian|he|marri|a|miss|blood|a|relat|of|thoma|guy
who|found|guy|s|hospit|and|colleg|in|london|and|built|and|en
dow|the|almshous|at|tamworth|his|mother|s|nativ|place|he|pros
t|a7|t|yanytaacoat
ty
seven
yfeu|fo|ljyu
coxgression|district|of|xeiv|jersey|one hundred and fifty-three
pere|in|his|busi|and|left|a|handsom|legaci|to|be|distribut|among
those|who|could|prove|ani|relationship|to|him|he|himself|be|a|bachelor
see|the|condens|american|cyclopedia|vol|ii|cubajarrow|page
five hundred and twenty-four|and|the|worldwid|cyclopedia|vol|vii|page|two thousand, nine hundred and eighty-five|publish
by|the|bibl|hous|new|york
jame|wainwright|was|born|at|tamworth|england|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|was
educ|at|the|colleg|locat|there|he|was|an|industri|lad|and|at|an
earli|age|took|charg|of|a|carpetmanufactur|plant|later|he|engag
in|the|mercantil|busi|continu|it|until|his|death|at|kidderminst
octob|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|when|he|was|in|the|prime|of|life|fiftyf|year|of|age
he|was|also|rear|in|the|episcop|church|but|later|unit|with|the|con
gregat|church|and|took|an|activ|part|in|their|meet|was|super
intend|of|the|sundayschool|etc|he|was|a|man|who|was|much|love
and|esteem|and|aim|to|govern|his|life|by|the|golden|rule|he|mar
rie|miss|clara|hanson|and|twelv|children|were|born|to|them|viz|sarah
andrew|edward|clara|elizabeth|jame|william|who|came|to|america
and|was|foreman|in|a|woolen|mill|at|lowel|massachusett|eliza|georg
h|our|subject|john|and|two|that|die|in|infanc|the|wife|and|mother
die|june|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|at|the|age|of|fiftyeight|year
georg|hanson|wainwright|receiv|his|educ|train|in|the
public|school|of|kidderminst|and|at|an|earli|age|develop|a|wonder
talent|for|draw|he|show|such|mark|abil|as|an|artist|that|it|was
deem|advis|to|give|him|the|benefit|of|the|best|instructor|and|he
enter|the|school|of|design|at|kidderminst|where|he|appli|himself
dilig|and|carri|off|the|prize|over|the|other|pupil|soon|after|com
plete|his|studi|he|engag|with|a|manufactur|of|carpet|to|get|a|fuller
knowledg|of|the|applic|of|design|to|the|fabric|by|be|where|they
were|made|his|skill|as|a|design|have|becom|the|public|talk|he|was
importun|to|accept|posit|with|differ|larg|manufactur|plant
who|realiz|the|valu|that|his|work|would|be|to|them|he|final|close
with|a|good|offer|from|a|carpetmanufactur|and|remain|with|him|a|few
year|at|the|same|time|attend|the|school|of|design|to|still|further|per
fect|himself|he|was|still|quit|young|and|had|been|two|year|an|assist
in|a|factori|befor|he|was|seventeen|come|to|america|he|accept|a
posit|as|a|design|for|the|hartford|carpet|compani|of|new|york|citi
and|later|for|joseph|barrett|of|the|same|place|he|was|employ|by
alexand|smith|son|carpet|compani|of|yonker|new|york|and
the|lowel|carpet|compani|of|lowel|massachusett|and|after|that
work|at|design|for|himself|make|pattern|for|carpet|oilcloth
curtain|etc|and|sell|them|direct|to|manufactur|his|design|alway
one hundred and fifty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
met|with|readi|sale|and|he|is|one|of|the|best|artist|in|this|hne|in|tlii
countri|and|his|idea|are|alway|origin|and|take|the|popular|fanc|he
has|been|abl|to|lay|up|a|neat|sum|by|his|industri|and|has|a|fine|farm|of
one|hundr|and|fifti|and|onehalf|acr|in|ouinton|township|this|counti
besid|be|one|of|the|stockhold|in|the|citi|nation|bank|he
is|a|man|of|great|popular|among|his|neighbor|and|of|straightforward
honest|charact|that|call|for|the|hearti|commend|of|all|who|have
deal|with|him
mr|wainwright|was|marri|feliruari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|to|nliss|sarah|shep
pard|walker|whose|father|william|sheppard|walker|was|a|farmer|of
upper|alloway|s|creek|township|well|known|as|a|strong|advoc|of
temper|and|one|of|the|best|friend|of|the|antislaveri|becaus|dure
the|earli|histori|of|the|counti|he|was|a|son|of|illiam|one|of|the
founder|of|the|alloway|baptist|church|and|a|grandson|of|robert|walker
who|was|one|of|three|brother|who|came|to|america|at|an|earli|day|and
locat|in|alloway|now|ouintoh|township|on|a|larg|farm|of|one|thousand
acr|his|son|william|was|also|a|farmer|in|that|township|and|rear|his
children|there|he|was|thrice|marri|his|first|wife|sarah|sheppard|bore
him|three|children|sarah|phoeb|and|william|sheppard|walker|the
father|of|mrs|wainwright|he|die|at|the|age|of|seentytwo|year|and
she|at|the|age|of|twentynin|and|buri|in|salem|churchyard|near|where
her|brother|joseph|sheppard|preach|and|taught|for|twenti|year|the
father|of|mrs|ainwright|was|ijorn|in|one thousand, eight hundred and six|in|alloway|township|and
becam|one|of|the|most|substanti|agriculturist|of|the|counti|he|was
a|member|of|the|baptist|church|known|far|and|wide|for|his|christian|prin
cipl|and|the|rigid|maimer|in|which|he|exemplifi|his|faith|he|was|un
compromis|in|his|utter|on|the|slaveri|question|and|neglect|no
opportun|to|aid|the|unfortun|he|was|also|one|of|the|strongest
expon|of|the|principl|of|temper
his|first|wife|was|ann|hewitt|who|left|him|four|children|at|her|death
name|william|david|joseph|and|thoma|the|two|oldest|reach
manhood|david|was|in|the|civil|war|and|fought|for|his|countri|at|chan
cellorsvill|and|fredericksburg|the|second|wife|was|ann|stow|the|mother
of|charl|thoma|sarah|the|wife|of|our|subject|anna|and|emma
walker|their|father|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|at|the|age|of|fiftyeight|year|and|their
mother|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|she|was|seventyfour|year|old|thoma
stow|walker|was|a|minist|of|the|baptist|faith|and|the|first|to|be|licens
to|preach|by|the|memori|church|in|salem|to|which|citi|they|remo
from|alloway
mrs|wainwright|is|a|womanlv|woman|who|has|unusu|charm|of|manner
coxgressoxjl|district|of|xeii|jersey|one hundred and fifty-five
and|a|decid|literari|talent|she|is|a|graduat|of|the|new|jersey|state
normal|school|of|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|was|a|teacher|for|twelv|year
seven|of|them|he|spent|in|the|schoolroom|in|salem|where|she|was
one|of|the|most|success|teacher|employ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|she|enter|the
woman|s|baptist|home|mission|train|school|then|locat|on|michi
gan|avenu|in|chicago|remain|for|six|month|afterward|she|was|sent
to|inspect|and|report|upon|the|work|of|it|missionari|in|jacksonvill|flor
ida|later|she|visit|england|and|spent|two|month|in|mildmay|park
london|and|haunt|of|cowper|and|carey|marri|after|her|return|to|this
countri|it|is|her|delight|to|refer|to|her|former|pupil|now|fill|offic
of|trust|as|mayor|of|the|citi|counti|clerk|surrog|posit|in|the
bank|of|the|citi|teacher|in|school|etc|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|it|was|the|privileg
of|herself|and|hus1|and|to|cross|the|contin|of|north|america|with|three
hundr|baptist|to|attend|a|convent|in|san|francisco|california
mrs|wainwright|is|a|writer|of|exquisit|patho|and|fine|humor|and
her|vers|are|worthi|a|place|in|ani|librari|to|a|young|friend|who|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|wrote|a|letter|to|her|say|tomorrow|is|my|birthday|she|com
pose|the|follow|in|repli
aiileston
would|i|had|the|power
to|call|the|muse|near
that|i|might|sing|some|sonnet
that|you|would|love|to|hear
i|would|tell|you|of|the|nobl|men
from|adam|until|now
form|by|our|lord|to|honor|him
and|on|his|footstool|bow
of|enoch|the|pureheart
who|walk|with|god|below
and|was|not|for|he|took|him
becaus|he|love|him|so
of|abraham|the|faith
who|go|stail|in|hand
from|his|own|fa|ore|countri
to|seek|a|promis|land
of|david|harp|sweet
the|psalm|we|love|to|sing
more|happi|when|a|shepherd|lad
than|when|a|crown|king
one hundred and fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|mose|and|the|burn|1jush
when|stood|his|god|so|near
he|took|tlie|shoe|from|off|lii|feet
nd|treml|led|tlier|with|fear
and|as|he|led|forth|israel
to|plain|of|beauti|fair
was|led|himself|by|cloud|and|fire
until|god|hid|him|there
so|now|he|lead|his|peopl
from|day|of|birth|till|death
and|set|our|year|mileston
until|he|take|our|breath
then|should|we|ever|doubt|him
or|ceas|his|voic|to|hear
for|never|were|his|children
to|him|i|know|more|dear
so|now|i|send|you|greet
and|bid|you|onward|go
but|onli|as|he|lead|you
to|height|far|up|or|low
know|that|onli|as|we|walk
our|hand|in|his|abov
and|reach|to|our|fellow|man
we|tread|the|path|of|love
charl|b|corson|m|d
dr|charl|b|corson|who|is|success|engag|in|the|practic|of
medicin|in|south|seavill|was|born|in|the|town|which|is|still|his|home
august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|his|parent|be|remington|and|mari|p|york|corson
the|origin|spell|of|the|name|was|carsten|but|with|the|pass|of|the
year|the|present|orthographi|has|been|adopt|the|great|grandfath|of
the|doctor|was|remington|corson|sr|and|his|father|lewi|corson|resid
at|beesley|s|point|and|had|four|son|remington|lewi|frank|and|still
well|the|first|name|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and|at|the|time|of|his
death|which|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|when|he|was|forti|year|of|age|he|was|carri
ing|on|agricultur|pursuit|at|cold|spring|cape|may|counti|he|marri
priscilla|townsend|and|they|had|four|children|baker|uriah|seafar
men|edith|wife|of|william|godfrev|and|henrv|t|the|last|name|was
congression|district|of|neir|jersey|one hundred and fifty-seven
born|march|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|has|alway|follow|the|sea|and|in|the|civil|war|he
serv|in|the|naval|depart|carri|suppli|for|the|govern|he
marri|priscilla|l|corson|and|they|had|a|son|richard|somer|a|seafar
man|who|was|kill|by|a|fall|elev|in|boston|after|the|death|of|his
first|wife|henri|t|corson|wed|hannah|t|learn
baker|corson|the|grandfath|was|born|in|cape|may|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen
and|was|a|sea|captain|on|a|coast|schooner|throughout|his|busi|career
he|also|engag|in|general|merchandis|in|south|seavill|and|was|resid
ing|near|the|town|at|the|time|of|his|demis|the|republican|parti|receiv
his|support|and|he|serv|at|one|time|as|the|postmast|of|south|seavill
he|took|an|activ|part|in|religi|work|was|a|lead|and|influenti|mem
ber|of|the|calvari|baptist|church|and|serv|as|one|of|it|truste|he
marri|sarah|corson|who|still|surviv|her|husband|they|becam|the
parent|of|three|children|cecelia|remington|and|william|the|last|name
die|in|childhood|and|the|daughter|becam|the|wife|of|frederick|corson|a
sea|captain|of|south|seavill|by|whom|she|had|three|son|newel|s|wal
ter|s|and|clarenc
remington|corson|the|doctor|s|father|was|born|in|south|seavill|cape
may|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|attend|the|public|school|and|was|also|a|student|in
pierc|s|busi|colleg|he|receiv|a|thorough|busi|train|and
was|a|member|of|the|first|class|that|graduat|at|that|institut|he|subs
quentli|went|to|sea|and|three|year|later|he|assum|the|manag|of|his
father|s|general|mercantil|establish|in|south|seavill|conduct|the
businessfor|twentvon|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|was|elect|the|sheriflf|of|the
counti|and|retir|from|commerci|life|he|was|afterward|the|postmast
of|south|seavill|under|presid|harrison|serv|for|five|year|and|had
been|the|first|postmast|of|the|town|at|which|time|he|serv|for|nineteen
consecut|vear|he|was|recogn|as|one|of|the|lead|worker|in|the
rank|of|therepublican|parti|and|was|frequent|solicit|to|becom|a|can
didat|for|the|legislatur|but|alway|refus|he|was|also|a|veri|promin
mason|and|one|of|the|charter|member|of|cannon|lodg|no|one hundred and four|f|a
m|at|south|seavill|fill|all|of|it|offic|and|sere|as|the|master|of|the
lodg|for|a|number|of|year|he|is|a|knight|templar|mason|and|has|taken
sixteen|degre|in|the|scottish|rite|in|the|baptist|church|he|held|a|mem
bership|and|was|it|treasur|for|a|number|of|year|he|wed|mari|p
york|and|three|children|were|born|to|them|william|who|die|in|infanc
charl|b|and|sarah|wife|of|martin|s|grace|a|railroad|man|the|father
die|april|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|at|the|age|of|fiftyon|year|and|the|mother|is|still|live
at|the|age|of|fiftyseven
dr|corson|has|spent|his|entir|life|in|the|counti|of|his|nativ|and
is8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
acquir|his|preliminan|educ|in|the|pubhc|school|of|south|seavill
he|further|continu|his|studi|under|privat|instruct|and|then|took
up|the|studi|of|medicin|with|the|intent|of|make|it|practic|his|hfe
work|on|the|7th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was|graduat|at|the|univers|of
pennsylvania|with|the|degre|of|m|d|and|locat|in|practic|in|south
seavill|but|this|was|his|first|experi|in|the|field|of|labor
for|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|had|been|appoint|a|page|in|the|state|senat|and|had
serv|for|three|year|he|had|also|been|assist|postmast|under|presi
dent|harrison|s|administr|the|doctor|was|elect|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
coron|of|cape|may|counti|for|a|term|of|three|year|in|the|prosecut
of|his|chosen|call|he|has|been|veri|success|and|now|has|a|liber
patronag|that|mani|an|older|member|of|the|medic|fratern|might|well
envi|he|is|a|member|of|the|cape|may|counti|medic|societi|and|is|now
serv|as|it|secretari|he|has|written|some|articl|for|medic|journal
includ|report|of|import|and|interest|case|and|has|alreadi|gain
mark|prestig|in|his|profess
on|the|22d|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|the|doctor|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
theresa|t|corson|a|daughter|of|nichola|and|priscilla|corson|a|success
teaciier|then|resid|in|south|denni|new|jersey|they|now|have|one
child|edmund|remington|corson|in|south|seavill|they|hae|a|wide
acquaint|and|the|circl|of|their|friend|almost|equal|the|number|of|their
acquaint
benjaaiin|t|abbott|m|d
among|those|who|devot|their|time|and|energi|to|tlie|practic|of
medicin|and|have|gain|a|lead|place|in|the|rank|of|the|profess|is
dr|abbott|of|ocean|citi|success|in|ani|line|of|occup|in|ani|avenu
of|busi|is|not|a|matter|of|spontan|but|is|the|legitim|offspr
of|subject|effort|in|the|proper|util|of|the|mean|at|hand|the|i|am
provement|of|opportun|and|the|exercis|of|the|highest|function|made
possibl|by|the|specif|abil|in|ani|case|it|is|through|such|channel
that|dr|abbott|has|won|prestig|in|the|medic|fratern|have|long
sinc|left|the|rank|of|the|mani|to|stand|among|the|success|few
the|doctor|was|born|in|tuckaho|cape|may|counti|august|six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five
and|is|of|english|lineag|the|earli|annal|of|the|famili|account|for|it
origin|in|america|by|record|that|the|first|progenitor|of|the|famili|on
american|soil|came|from|abbotsford|england|in|coloni|day|the|doc
tor|s|parent|were|john|c|and|ann|treen|abbott|the|father|a|nativ
of|salem|counti|was|educ|in|the|public|school|and|under|privat|in
f3j|a
coxgressiox|district|of|xeir|jersey
one hundred and fifty-nine
struction|after|which|he|engag|in|teach|he|also|studi|survey
and|becam|one|of|the|best|known|surveyor|in|southern|new|jersey|his
servic|be|wide|sought|in|various|section|of|the|state|he|further
extend|the|field|of|his|labor|liy|act|as|foreman|of|various|iron|work
on|both|side|of|the|alleghani|mountain|be|thus|engag|for|mani
year|he|was|also|extens|engag|in|the|lumber|busi|oper|a
sawmil|and|was|the|owner|of|three|hundr|and|sixti|acr|of|cedar|swamp
one|of|the|most|valuabl|in|southern|new|jersey|he|had|a|farm|of|one
hundr|acr|of|tillabl|land|and|his|last|day|were|devot|to|agricultur
pursuit|his|vari|and|well|manag|busi|interest|brought|to|him
wealth|and|his|promin|in|connect|with|the|industri|and|public
afifair|of|the|comnuni|made|him|a|lead|and|influenti|citizen|he
was|the|judg|of|the|court|for|sever|year|at|iay|s|land|and|by
other|judg|at|differ|time|in|his|life|was|frequent|appoint|as|a|com
mission|on|the|divis|of|estat
he|was|a|man|of|clear|calm|judg
ment|of|unquest|probiti|and
of|sterl|worth|and|no|trust|ever
given|into|his|keep|was|ever|be
tray|when|a|young|man|he
was|a|member|of|a|militia|com
pani|and|took|part|in|the|train
of|those|earli|day|long|a|faith
ful|member|of|the|alethodit
church|he|serv|as|superintend
ent|of|the|sundayschool|at|alay|s
land|for|thirty-five|year|and|labor
earnest|to|instil|into|young|mind|principl|which|would|guid|and|benefit
them|through|life|and|to|introduc|the|benefit|and|bless|of|christian
among|those|of|more|matur|year|his|last|day|were|spent|at|may|s
land|and|in|his|death|the|communiti|lost|one|of|it|most|honor|and
valu|citizen
john|c|abbott|was|the|father|of|eight|children|william|t|the|eldest
is|a|methodist|minist|at|ocean|grove|but|on|account|of|the|partial
loss|of|his|voic|he|is|now|live|retir|onli|occasion|fill|the|pulpit
he|is|a|member|of|the|new|jersey|confer|and|dure|the|civil|war|he
serv|as|the|chaplain|of|the|twentythird|new|jersey|volunt|infantrv
at|the|battl|of|winchest|his|hat|was|shot|from|his|head|he|marri
miss|rebecca|gilbert|of|burlington|new|jersey|and|their|children|are
kate|wife|of|georg|morrow|a|cater|of|jersey|citi|new|jersey|estella
i6o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|william|g|a|druggist|john|g|the|second|of|the|children|of|john|c
abbott|was|educ|in|the|public|school|and|engag|in|schoolteach
until|his|enlist|in|the|fortyeighth|independ|regiment|from|new
york|citi|compos|of|bank|offic|teacher|and|profession|men|he
was|wound|in|an|assault|on|fort|wagner|and|die|from|the|eiifect|of|his
injuri|eight|day|later|at|fort|hamilton|new|york|j|e|pott|the
next|of|the|famili|was|educ|in|new|jersey|in|the|law|depart|of
the|univers|of|pennsylvania|and|under|the|instruct|of|judg|wood
hull|of|camden|in|earli|life|he|engag|in|teach|and|has|sinc|prac
tice|law|at|may|s|land|clark|w|was|a|sea|captain|for|sever|year|and
was|also|engag|in|farm|lumber|and|deal|in|coal|he|marri
isabel|a|daughter|of|captain|joseph|wilson|of|may|s|land|the|doc
tor|is|the|next|of|the|famili|rebecca|is|deceas|maggi|is|the|widow
of|j|robert|kenney|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|is|the|son|of|rev|edward
j|kenney|and|was|born|in|philadelphia|and|for|mani|year|was|postmast
of|the|citi|of|wahoo|nebraska|where|he|was|engag|in|the|drygood
and|millineri|busi|charl|studi|law|with|his|brother|and|is|the
present|member|from|atlant|counti|to|the|state|legislatur|the|father
of|these|children|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|at|the|advanc|age|of|nineti|year|and
thus|was|end|a|long|and|use|life|over|which|there|fell|no|shadow|of
wrong|or|suspicion|of|evil
dr|abbott|whose|name|introduc|the|initi|paragraph|of|this|review
was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|atlant|and|cape|may|counti|and
afterward|engag|in|teach|school|in|the|former|counti|and|was|also|the
princip|of|the|middletown|academi|in|delawar|he|afterward|fill
the|offic|of|deputi|clerk|of|the|court|of|atlant|counti|for|three|year
and|then|with|a|determin|to|becom|a|member|of|the|medic|pro
fession|enter|the|jefiferson|medic|colleg|of|philadelphia|in|which
he|was|graduat|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|took|a|special|cours|in|anatomi
surgeri|and|gynecolog|receiv|separ|diploma|for|the|work|he|had|ac
complish|in|those|branch|of|the|medic|scienc|in|his|practic|he
has|made|a|specialti|of|gynecolog|and|surgeri|and|in|these|special|de
partment|he|has|patient|in|all|section|of|the|state|and|in|philadelphia
his|knowledg|along|these|line|is|accur|and|profound|and|his|treat
ment|of|such|diseas|has|been|follow|li_|most|excel|result|his
reput|has|thus|extend|far|and|wide|and|he|is|frequent|call|in
consult|to|atlant|tuckaho|sea|isl|citi|and|other|place|in|southern
new|jersey|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he|engag|in|practic|at|may|s|land
ing|and|then|becam|the|successor|of|his|old|preceptor|dr|e|l|b|wale
at|tuckaho|a|brother|of|surgeon|general|wale|of|the|unit|state
congression|district|of|new|jersey|i6i
navi|remain|in|tuckaho|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|then|came|to|ocean|citi
where|he|has|sinc|made|his|home|he|came|to|this|place|in|order|to|get
away|from|a|practic|whose|extens|proport|and|great|respons
were|ruin|his|own|health|and|now|he|has|all|that|he|can|attend|to|or
care|to|undertak|in|the|line|of|his|profess|for|twenti|year|he|was
also|engag|in|the|drug|busi|in|tuckaho|he|is|a|member|of|the
new|jersey|state|medic|societi|and|the|cape|may|counti|medic|so
cieti|and|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|censor|of|the|medicochirurg
colleg|of|philadelphia|a|posit|which|he|has|occupi|sinc|jnli|i|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four
he|was|also|offer|a|chair|in|the|institut|but|declin|to|fill|it|he|has
perform|some|of|the|most|delic|and|difiscult|oper|known|to|sur
geri|and|has|an|american|endoscop|the|xray|instrument|for|surgic
work|his|practic|in|surgeri|and|gynecolog|is|greater|than|that|of|ani
other|physician|in|cape|may|counti|his|success|as|a|surgeon|is|due|to|his
wonder|minut|and|accur|acquaint|with|anatomi|combin|with
an|excel|power|of|diagnosi|a|cool|head|steadi|muscl|and|great|me
chanic|genius
the|doctor|has|success|perform|mani|veri|difficult|oper
in|remov|cancer|and|tumor|and|is|now|compil|a|work|which|will|be
a|histori|of|fifti|case|of|cancer|which|have|come|under|his|immedi|at
tention|in|this|he|will|endeavor|to|show|that|the|preval|of|cancer|in
this|countri|is|due|to|intermarriag|between|blood|relat|prove|this
to|be|the|fact|in|ninetynin|out|of|everi|hundr|case|dr|bbott|has
also|contribut|some|veri|valuabl|articl|to|medic|journal|show
wide|research|earnest|thought|and|origin|investig
dr|abbott|has|been|thrice|marri|on|christma|day|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|he
wed|miss|hatti|blew|of|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|to|them|were
born|three|children|anna|m|wife|of|reuben|c|littl|a|bookkeep|of
philadelphia|by|whom|she|had|one|child|now|deceas|lizzi|l|at|home
and|lida|may|wife|of|georg|l|parson|a|merchant|of|tuckaho|for|his
second|wife|the|doctor|chose|emma|c|godfrey|a|daughter|of|judg|heze
kiah|godfrey|of|tuckaho|his|present|wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of
adella|corson|and|was|a|daughter|of|captain|sylvest|corson|a|sea|cap
tain|who|for|mani|year|resid|at|palermo|cape|iniay|countv
although|dr|abbott|has|attain|an|emin|posit|in|his|profe
sion|he|has|yet|found|time|to|aid|in|the|amelior|of|those|affair|which
concern|the|communiti|antl|has|serv|as|presid|of|the|board|of|health
sinc|his|arriv|in|ocean|citi|he|has|also|been|the|presid|of|the|board
of|educ|throughout|the|same|period|and|has|done|much|to|advanc
the|interest|of|the|school|in|this|localitv|he|has|been|an|odd|fellow|for
i62|biograph|histori|of|the|first
twentyf|year|hold|his|memljership|in|lodg|no|sixty-seven|at|tuckaho
he|is|also|a|member|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|and|of|the
jnnior|order|of|american|mechan|and|he|belong|to|the|methodist
episcop|church
his|success|in|a|profession|way|afford|the|best|evid|of|his|capa
biliti|and|no|physician|has|ever|observ|more|close|the|ethic|of|the
unwritten|profession|code|or|show|more|care|courtesi|to|his|fellow
practition|than|doe|he|almost|as|a|sacr|trust|he|seem|to|hold|his
profession|offic|and|it|has|been|his|care|attent|his|earnest|stud
and|his|deep|and|abid|human|sympathi|that|have|iirought|him|a|flis
tinguish|posit|in|profession|circl
jacob|p|collin
practic|industri|wise|and|vigor|appli|never|fail|of|success|it
carri|a|man|onward|and|upward|bring|out|his|individu|charact|and
act|as|a|power|stimulus|to|the|effort|of|other|the|greatest|result|in
life|are|usual|attain|by|simpl|mean|and|the|exercis|of|the
ordinari|qualiti|of|common|sens|and|persever|the|everyday
life|with|it|care|necess|and|duti|afford|ampl|opportun|for
acquir|experi|of|the|best|kind|and|it|most|beaten|path|afford|a
true|worker|aljund|scope|for|effort|and|selfimprov|it|has|been
in|the|legitim|channel|of|trade|that|jacob|peterson|collin|has|attain
a|lead|posit|in|industri|circl|in|cape|may|counti|make|him
one|of|the|substanti|citizen|of|the|communiti|he|belong|to|that|class
of|repres|american|who|while|promot|individu|prosper|also
add|to|the|materi|welfar|by|promot|commerci|activ|whereon
depend|the|progress|and|improv|of|town|counti|or|state
a|resid|of|south|seavill|cape|may|counti|he|was|born|in|estel
vill|atlant|counti|new|jersey|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|his|parent|be
smith|and|priscilla|peterson|collin|the|famili|has|long|been|repr
sent|in|this|state|the|greatgrandfath|resid|in|upper|new|jersey|and
his|widow|remov|to|atlant|counti|with|two|of|her|son|one|be|jo
seph|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|she|afterward|marri|again|and|re
move|to|the|west|from|which|time|all|trace|of|her|was|lost|joseph|collin
was|rear|in|estelvill|becam|a|sawyer|and|follow|that|and|other|occu
pation|in|pursuit|of|fortun|he|marri|a|miss|judith|steelman|and|their
children|were|steelman|who|marri|mari|homan|daniel|who|marri
martha|estel|john|smith|hannah|the|wife|of|somer|townsend|and
millic|the|wife|of|daniel|hoffman
c0xgressi0x4l|district|of|vff|jersey|one hundred and sixty-three
smit|collin|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|estelvill|atlant
countv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and five|becam|a|sawyer|and|follow|that|pursuit|in|connect
with|farm|his|polit|support|was|given|the|republican|parti|and
he|was|deepli|interest|in|it|success|do|all|in|his|power|to|3romot|it
growth|he|also|belong|to|the|son|of|temper|and|was|a|man|whose
upright|life|and|probiti|made|him|respect|one|y|all|his|children|were|som
er|harrison|who|marri|jane|detzming|by|whom|he|had|three|chil
dren|smith|and|two|deceas|the|mother|die|and|he|then|wed|lari
champion|by|whom|he|had|a|daughter|ida|he|was|a|farmer|and|also
engag|in|the|lumber|busi|in|ocean|citi|harri|s|a|farmer|of|estel
vill|marri|ella|steelman|and|their|children|were|ann|jess|rosa|ada
and|harri|jacob|p|is|the|next|of|the|famili|elizabeth|marri|john
english|who|former|engag|in|teach|but|now|follow|farm|at
english|creek|new|jersey|and|they|have|one|child|ion|naomi|is|the
youngest|the|father|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|year|and|left
to|his|children|the|priceless|heritag|of|the|good|name|which|is|rather|to
he|chosen|than|great|rich
jacob|peterson|collin|pursu|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of
estelvill|until|seventeen|year|of|age|and|then|devot|his|energi|to|the
work|of|field|and|meadow|upon|the|home|farm|until|he|had|attain|his|ma
joritv|he|learn|the|wheelwright|s|trade|in|absecon|new|jersey|follow
ing|that|pursuit|for|three|year|after|which|he|engag|in|carriagemak
at|may|s|land|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|in|that|year|he|came|to|cape|may|and|fol
low|the|busi|of|wheelwright|for|a|time|but|subsequ|he|took|up
survey|and|still|later|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|sash|door|and|blind
and|in|the|conduct|of|a|sawmil|at|south|seavill|his|factori|was|burn
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|but|with|characterist|energi|he|rebuilt|erect|a|fine|fireproof
corrugatediron|structur|in|which|he|manufactur|all|kind|of|build|ma
terial|and|deal|in|oil|glass|and|nail|this|is|one|of|the|lead|industri|in
this|section|of|the|counti|furnish|employ|to|a|larg|forc|of|worj
men|and|bring|to|the|owner|a|handsom|compet|he|buy|timber
which|he|cut|into|log|and|convert|into|finish|lumljer|as|has|been
indic|he|has|gradual|increas|and|extend|the|field|of|his|inisi
oper|as|his|capit|has|grown|and|is|now|number|among|the|promi
nent|and|success|busi|men|of|his|part|of|the|counti|he|is|the|owner
of|a|valuabl|farm|of|fiftyf|acr|in|denni|township|cape|may|counti
and|specul|to|a|consider|extent|in|land|he|is|a|man|of|excel
judgment|and|is|rare|at|fault|in|his|estim|of|land|valu|and|their|prob
abl|rise|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|south|seavill|build|loan|asso
ciation|and|repres|the|enterjiris|as|solicitor
i64|biograph|histori|of|the|first
on|the|i2th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|mr|collin|marri|miss|sarah|somer|town
send|a|daughter|of|david|townsend|a|sea|captain|at|ocean|view|and|a
granddaught|of|henri|young|townsend|who|was|one|of|a|famili|of|ten
children|she|was|the|fourth|in|order|of|birth|in|a|famili|of|six|children
the|other|be|shamgar|cornelia|edith|nichola|and|lewi|c|to|mr
and|mrs|collin|have|been|born|two|children|edna|and|harold|who
are|still|with|their|parent|the|famili|attend|the|calvar|baptist|church
of|which|mr|collin|is|a|consist|and|zealous|member|he|has|serv|as
it|treasur|for|ten|year|and|for|a|similar|period|it|clerk|his|entir|lite
has|been|character|by|the|strictest|fidel|to|everi|trust|repos|in|him
by|the|most|honor|and|straightforward|deal|in|busi|and|by|devo
tion|to|and|support|of|all|interest|which|are|calcul|to|promot|the
materi|social|and|moral|welfar|of|the|communiti|with|which|he|is|con
nect
hon|richard|c|mhler
one|of|the|leader|in|the|republican|parti|of|new|jersey|is|the|hon
richard|c|miller|a|lifelong|resid|of|the|town|of|alloway|salem|counti
he|enjoy|the|respect|and|high|regard|of|an|extrem|larg|circl|of
friend|in|the|busi|polit|and|social|world|and|the|follow|brief
narrat|of|his|career|will|prove|of|interest|to|mani|of|his|acquaint
the|patern|greatgrandpar|of|mr|miller|came|to|new|jersey|from
germani|and|it|is|believ|that|they|settl|in|cumberland|counti|their
son|john|miller|who|accompani|them|from|the|fatherland|was|twice
marri|both|of|his|wive|bear|the|surnam|of|hitchner|he|dwelt|upon
a|homestead|in|friesburg|salem|counti|which|properti|belong|to|one
of|these|wive|and|dure|his|time|he|was|account|to|be|one|of|the|thrifti
and|success|agriculturist|of|that|local|martin|deceas|who|was
engag|in|farm|in|the|vicin|of|salem|was|the|onli|child|of|the|first
marriag|and|to|the|second|union|there|were|born|the|follow|name
children|georg|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|john|who|live|at
greenwich|new|jersey|but|die|in|earli|manhood|samuel|w|anna|imr
riley|of|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|mari|who|never|marri|and|who
die|in|philadelphia
samuel|v|miller|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|near|greenwich
new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|in|earli|life|he|was|occupi|in|cabinetmak|but
later|he|gave|his|exclus|attent|to|the|lumber|busi|own|a
sawmil|near|alloway|he|manufactur|lumber|on|an|extens|scale|and
continu|successfullv|engag|in|this|line|of|busi|until|his|death|in
b|m1
6i
coxgrhssioxil|district|of|xtw|irrsri|one hundred and five
decemli|isj|k|in|llio|jiolit|of|lii|coniniunili|ami|stalo|ho|was|orv
promin|and|pojiular|a|loyal|wliii|and|rcpnlilican|in|isoo|lie|was|the
sheriff|of|salem|connti|and|two|year|later|ho|was|honor|hv|oleeiion|to
the|state|legislatnr|other|oftk|of|loeal|import|were|held|h|him
and|in|all|of|these|vari|posit|lie|prove|himself|to|he|eminentlx|irnst
worthi|and|tlevot|to|the|welfar|of|the|indili|in|the|iaiitist|ehureh|o
auoway|he|was|an|earnest|worker|and|member|his|inllnene|eer|hemt
use|on|the|side|of|the|riht
for|a|comiianion|and|helpmat|aloni|life|s|jonrnew|s|w|miller|chose
miss|elizaheth|rallin|l|er|a|daiiihter|of|john|rallini|er|whose|jiarein|were
nativ|of|scotland|he|was|eniag|in|the|shoe|hiisi|in|alloway|for
year|and|occupi|sever|local|offic|here|lie|niarricil|a|miss|fdward
and|their|children|were|richard|c|who|for|a|nnmher|of|year|was|a|suc
cess|contractor|md|builder|of|salem|and|at|one|lime|was|the|shenit|of
salem|counti|john|g|now|retir|and|former|a|cabinetmak|unller
and|contractor|and|builder|and|iizabcth|the|youngest|to|the|marriag
of|s|w|miller|and|wife|seen|children|were|horn|of|whom|sarah|marri
sinnickson|chew|now|the|editor|of|the|west|jersey|press|publish|at
camden|john|deceas|william|a|realest|man|of|onker|new|york
and|whose|wife|was|former|wilhehnina|woodruff|and|their|children
llnmia|leimi|and|marri|sanniel|w|engag|in|the|realest|and|brok
erag|busi|in|ew|ork|citi|marri|alari|lippincott|and|has|one
child|harold|kichard|c|dr|jame|r|a|i|hysiciau|on|south|rroad|street
philadelphia|and|nna|wife|of|joseph|jenkin|who|is|in|the|railroad
busi|at|jersev|citi|and|is|the|cashier|of|what|is|known|is|the|consuji
date|traction|compani|of|new|jersey
the|birth|of|the|hon|richard|c|miller|took|place|in|alnnvay|march|js
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|in|his|boyhood|he|was|a|student|in|the|public|school|here|later
he|enter|salem|academi|where|he|was|gradtiat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|t|the|age
of|twenti|year|he|becam|associ|with|his|father|in|the|lnnd|er|busi
aiid|continu|with|him|mnil|the|death|of|the|elder|man|the|lirm|be
known|as|miller|son|sinc|that|event|he|has|carri|on|the|busi
alon|oper|a|sawmil|and|tuanufactnr|oak|lumber|for|the|phila
delphia|and|camden|tra|le|and|s|ii|ipe|direct|to|the|great|shii|yard|ide
employ|upward|of|twenti|person|in|his|sexer|enterpris|which|includ
a|hardwar|store|the|sawmil|and|the|lumber|coal|and|fertil|yard|and
offic|prosper|is|his|jiortion|and|he|rich|deserv|it|for|his|labor
have|been|unremit|and|character|by|mnisual|good|judgment|and
method|he|own|real|estat|in|salem|valuabl|properti|in|lloway|and
one|farm|in|this|townshij|in|addit|to|his|busi|plant|and|locat
i6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
tbongit|be|has|been|z|valts|aorier|in|the|rank|of|tbe|reptiblicaii
ijartt|ilr|ilih|has|never|allow|his|name|to|be|use|as|a|candid|foe
pnablic|offic|until|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|be|was|argeti|to|make|a|canvass|for|a|place
in|tbe|senat|he|was|dnlv|eikct|and|serv|his|term|with|credit|to|him
self|and|partv|feiend|he|was|again|elect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|wbich|was|the|first|time
in|r|that|anyon|was|ever|nomin|for|the|senat
the|rar|he|has|taken|an|activ|nart|rn|the|state|crm
flcenc|for|the|scccess|fratem|_|a
lodg|xo|one hundred and thirty-five|f|a|ji|aucrwaij|lodg|xo|one hundred and sixty-five|l|o|j|f|and|tbe
kxrs|tze|tt|the|knight|of|pythia|he|also|is|a|member|o|tbe|state
mv|loon|associ
one|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|mr|ilih|was|unit|in|marriag|to|iliss
mari|hire|a|laughter|of|jarvi|and|sarah|kehi|hire|thej|are|tbe
parent|of|one|child|bessi|who|has|been|given|excel|adantag|and
is|stin|at|boin
tess|d|ludll
the|lndlam|famili|of|which|there|are|mani|descend|in|new|jersey
origin|in|yorkshir|fng|r|more|than|two|centuri|repr
sent2e5|te|e|hare|i|r|in|cape|may|connti|where|they
ha|t|rrted|with|the|busi|interest|which|have|led|to
tbe|rat|and|perman|improv|of|this|section|of
the|state
it|was|niboiri|ludlam|who|left|his|home|in|yorkshir|and|brave|the
danger|incid|to|an|ocean|voyag|at|that|earli|period|of|navig|in
ckder|to|secnr|a|born|in|tbe|xew|worid|he|locat|at|sonthampton
long|isiand|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty|and|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-two|his|son|joseph|came|to|cape|may
conntt|he|t|isaac|and|jeremiari
from|whom|a|rnded|joseph|luclajn
in|one thousand, seven hundred and nineteen|and|it|z|vvrr|run|inc|l|adlam|five|beach|and|was
engag|sttcksing|and|h2|ei|htr|2r|hi|and|compris
ah|the|tr|xeck|f|trabip|lie
between|7r|i|it|red|acr|for
which|he|paic|three|poimd|in|english|money|this
jhtoperti|he|_|_|trween|his|son|anthoni|and|jeremiah
tbe|latter|becom|tbe|owner|of|tbe|northern|portion|the|former|o|tbe
soqthem|tract|andmmi|linllam|later|divid|his|properti|at|denni
xeck|between|his|son|nthonv|reuben|and|provid|and|also|rt
coxgressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|one hundred and sixty-seven
queath|a|sawmil|to|the|last|name|anthoni|ludlam|sr|took|up|his
resid|at|dennisvill|upon|the|south|side|of|the|creek|m|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-six|and|a
few|year|later|his|brother|joseph|took|up|his|abod|on|the|north|side|of
the|stream
the|former|s|son|anthoni|ludlam|jr|was|the|greatgrandfath|of|our
subject|he|possess|consider|execut|abil|and|was|a|man|of|enter
prise|and|mark|charact|for|a|long|time|he|sere|as|a|judg|of|the
counti|court|and|was|also|an|activ|and|influenti|busi|man|from
the|heayi|timber|he|clear|a|farm|upon|which|furman|ludlam|now|resid
and|ther|e|he|built|a|dam|and|erect|a|saw|and|grist|mill|at|the|head|ot
sluic|creek|he|also|had|a|deer|park|in|which|he|rais|his|own|deer|and
throughout|the|countri|side|he|was|known|as|one|of|the|lead|landhold
and|busi|men|he|marri|a|daughter|of|judg|henn|young|and|to
them|were|born|six|children|anthoni|joseph|reuben|provid|eliza
beth|and|judith|of|this|famili|anthoni|marri|and|at|his|death|left|four
children|jame|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|rachel|rhoda|and|lovicia
jame|ludlam|was|born|in|south|denni|and|becam|an|extens
landown|have|sever|valuabl|farm|he|also|own|and|oper
gristmil|and|success|manag|his|larg|busi|interest|acquir
a|handsom|compet|he|serv|as|the|judg|of|the|court|was|a|jtistic
of|the|peac|and|held|other|local|offic|he|gave|the|land|upon|which|the
union|church|was|built|and|the|cemeteri|laid|out|and|was|alway|a
liber|subscrib|for|the|financi|need|of|the|church|he|marri|martha
johnson|a|daughter|of|david|johnson|and|their|children|were|anthoni
christoph|jame|j|jeremiah|j|abijah|s|amelia|sarah|and|rachel
christoph|ludlam|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|south|denni
juli|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|and|there|spent|his|entir|life|his|energi|be|devot|to
farm|and|to|the|oper|of|a|flour|mill|his|work|was|systemat
ical|and|care|manag|and|thus|allow|him|time|to|perform|other
duti|of|life|in|connect|with|citizenship|and|church|relat|he|gave
his|polit|support|to|the|democraci|and|was|a|zealous|and|activ|mem
ber|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|serv|as|a|member|of|it|board|of
truste|and|do|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|growth|and|advanc
the|becaus|of|the|church|he|was|an|aggress|temper|worker|and
at|all|time|labor|earnest|for|the|measur|which|he|believ|would
benefit|mankind|in|the|state|militia|he|held|the|rank|of|lieuten
christoph|ludlam|was|twice|marri|on|the|9th|of|april|one hundred and eighty-one|seven|he
wed|maria|swain|and|to|them|were|born|the|follow|children|ann
c|who|was|born|februari|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|die|septemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|jionro
who|was|l|orn|novemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|and|die|lrch|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|harriet|who|was
i68|biograph|histori|of|the|first
born|decemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|die|juli|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and|charl|who|was
born|june|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|and|die|octob|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|the|mother|of|these
children|pass|away|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|on|the|15th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|mr
ludlam|marri|hannah|swain|who|was|born|april|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and two|and|was|a
daughter|of|captain|henri|swain|who|made|his|home|at|ocean|view
cape|may|counti|but|was|the|command|of|a|vessel|and|die|at|sea|in
connect|with|his|brother|joshua|and|his|father|jacok|swain|he|invent
the|center|board|which|has|sinc|had|an|import|place|in|the|manipu
lation|of|sail|vessel|he|also|own|a|farm|in|cape|may|counti|his
wdfe|bore|the|maiden|name|of|elizabeth|holm|and|by|their|marriag
they|becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|robert|who|marri|a|ladi|in
louisiana|and|die|in|new|orlean|reuben|who|serv|in|the|navi|in|the
civil|war|and|is|now|deceas|jame|who|marri|sophia|swain|millic
the|wife|of|stillwel|hildreth|priscilla|wife|of|abijah|ludlam|judith|and
mrs|ludlam|the|parent|of|our|subject|had|ten|children|amelia|l
who|was|born|februari|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|and|die|in|earli|life|maria|l|who|was
born|may|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|becam|the|wife|of|leam|m|rice|franci|a
who|was|born|juli|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|and|marri|lizzi|buchanan|by|whom|he
had|two|children|mari|and|harri|joshua|s|who|was|born|septemb
thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|and|wed|marv|hall|by|whom|he|had|three|children|william
h|h|swain|and|ella|p|robert|a|who|was|born|august|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and
die|in|california|juli|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|unmarri|edwin|who|was|born|decemb
2y|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|marri|sarah|wentzel|their|children|be|harri|clara
and|hannah|william|b|who|was|born|august|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|die|in
childhood|benjamin|f|who|was|born|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|and|marri|martha
hunter|of|missouri|by|whom|he|had|six|children|william|lizzi|han
nah|frank|salli|and|john|jess|d|of|this|review|and|mari|d|who
was|born|septemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|is|the|wife|of|georg|f|brinkerhoflf|of
missouri|the|father|of|these|children|die|novemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|the
mother|s|death|occur|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three
hon|jess|diverti|ludlam|whose|name|introduc|this|record|of|one
of|the|oldest|and|most|distinguish|famili|of|new|jersey|was|born|at
south|denni|where|he|yet|make|his|home|februari|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|he
obtain|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|cape|may|counti|and|in
pennington|seminari|where|he|pursu|his|studi|until|twenti|year|of
age|when|he|took|up|the|practic|duti|of|life|by|follow|agricultur
pursuit|upon|the|farm|upon|which|he|now|resid|sinc|that|time|he|has
been|connect|with|the|farm|interest|of|cape|may|counti|and|is|the
owner|of|one|hundr|and|twenti|acr|of|rich|land|which|is|under|a|high
state|of|cultiv|in|the|supervis|of|his|farm|he|follow|the|most|pro
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and sixty-nine
gressiv|method|and|the|latest|improv|machineri|enabl|him|to|make|his
place|one|character|by|neat|and|indic|of|the|thrift|and|enterpris
of|the|owner|he|also|deal|in|cedar|lumber|and|is|the|owner|of|larg|tract
of|timber|land|he|manufactur|lumber|on|an|extens|scale|and|in
addit|to|suppli|the|larg|local|demand|he|ship|a|consider|amount
upon|his|farm|he|has|erect|a|beauti|and|modern|resid|contain
fifteen|room|it|is|a|tast|style|of|architectur|built|after|his|own|plan
and|finish|throughout|in|hard|wood|make|it|one|of|the|finest|home
in|the|local
mr|ludlam|is|an|inflex|adher|of|democraci|and|activ|labor
to|promot|the|interest|of|the|parti|he|has|been|a|member|and|chair
man|of|the|town|committe|was|district|clerk|of|the|public|school|for
twentyf|year|and|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|was|a|member|of|the|board
of|chosen|freehold|for|four|year|he|was|the|inspector|of|elect
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|was|elect|to|the|general|assembl|by|a|major|of|eighteen
over|lewi|william|the|republican|candid|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|was|reelect|by
a|major|of|eightynin|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|by|a|major|of|one|hundr|and|fiftyfour
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|by|a|major|of|one|hundr|and|thirti|no|higher|testimoni
of|his|eicient|servic|could|be|given|than|his|increas|major|which
indic|how|abli|and|loyal|he|has|labor|for|the|interest|of|his|constitu
ent|and|his|state|it|is|a|well|known|epigram|that|a|man|may|fool|all|the
peopl|some|of|the|time|some|of|the|peopl|all|of|the|time|but|he|can|not|fool
all|of|the|peopl|all|of|the|time|and|as|long|as|the|ballot|is|in|the|hand
of|the|american|citizen|the|outlook|for|our|american|polit|is|not|a|gloomi
one|for|although|unworthi|men|may|gain|ofiic|they|can|not|retain|it|except
through|faith|servic|it|is|therefor|evid|that|the|peopl|have|great
confid|in|mr|ludlam|and|that|the|trust|which|they|repos|in|him|has
never|been|betray|he|was|appoint|a|lay|judg|of|cape|may|counti|by
governor|abbett|and|serv|for|seven|year|or|until|the|offic|was|abolish
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|serv|for|two|year|fill|out|the|unexpir|term|of|judg
diverti|and|was|then|appoint|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|for|the|full|term|of|five|year
for|eighteen|year|he|has|been|the|treasur|of|the|dennisvill|build
loan|associ
on|the|3d|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|mr|ludlam|was|marri|to|miss|emili
c|miller|her|patern|grandfath|elijah|miller|was|a|nativ|of|cape
iay|counti|and|follow|farm|on|green|creek|where|he|spent|his|last
day|he|was|a|promin|member|in|the|alethodist|episcop|church|and
aid|in|it|various|effort|to|uplift|mankind|he|marri|phoeb|smith
and|their|children|were|vincent|who|marri|mari|cameron|of|philadel
phia|and|a|daughter|of|angus|and|margaret|cameron|former|of|scotland
i70|biograph|histori|of|the|first
mari|the|wife|of|captain|benajah|tomlin|hy|wliom|she|had|seven|chihhen
deborah|and|smith|who|die|unmarri|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife
mr|miller|wed|catherin|mckinni|and|to|them|was|born|a|daughter
margaret|who|marri|rev|jacob|price|the|father|of|mrs|ludlam|was
born|at|green|creek|cape|may|count|novemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|throughout
his|life|follow|farm|he|wed|mari|cameron|and|four|children|were
born|to|them|iargaret|the|wife|of|dr|georg|g|carll|of|salem|new
jersey|b|whom|she|had|four|children|a|lincoln|alfr|mari|and
helen|air|emili|ludlam|and|phoeb|s|and|mari|r|who|are|engag
in|teach|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|the|father|marri|priscilla
buck|and|their|children|are|incent|o|ella|elijah|bell|frank|and
smith
to|mr|and|mrs|ludlam|have|been|born|three|children|lesli|s|mar
garet|c|and|mari|m|the|son|was|born|decemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|was|educ
in|the|public|school|and|is|now|serv|as|deputi|counti|clerk|he|marri
lida|adam|and|they|have|one|child|jess|d
mr|ludlam|was|former|a|member|of|the|grang|and|now|belong|to
dennisvill|lodg|k|of|p|his|public|and|privat|career|are|alik|aliov
reproach|and|in|ofific|he|has|demonstr|his|mark|loyalti|by|his|effi
cient|discharg|of|duti|in|busi|afifair|he|is|energet|prompt|and
notabl|reliabl|and|sustain|an|unassailall|reput|which|may|well|be
envi|and|which|is|inde|wortln|of|emul
mahlon|d|dickinson
woodstown|boast|of|no|more|patriot|publicspirit|citizen|than|he
whose|name|head|this|sketch|dure|his|earli|manhood|and|prime|he
was|interest|in|agricultur|and|in|this|peac|vocat|made|a|comp
tenc|for|old|age|whatev|affect|the|farmer|is|a|matter|of|prime|i|am
portanc|to|him|and|in|numer|way|he|has|manifest|his|interest|in|the
welfar|and|progress|of|the|agriculturist|of|salem|counti
both|he|and|his|parent|as|well|as|sever|generat|of|their|famili
have|been|inhabit|of|this|counti|and|state|the|father|john|and|phil
enion|live|to|manhood|thoma|die|in|his|childhood|john|dickinson
took|an|import|place|in|his|time|and|communiti|for|vear|was|a|farmer
and|merchant|of|sharptown|salem|counti|was|the|captain|of|a|militia|com
pani|in|the|earli|part|of|this|centuri|serv|as|a|justic|of|the|peac|and
local|judg|in|this|counti|and|repres|this|district|in|the|state|legislatur
eleen|year|the|last|term|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|be|elect|on|the|miig|ticket|he
jk|p|ldulh
congressiox|district|of|neiv
rersev|seventeen
vas|summon|to|his|reward|on|the|9th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|hen|he|was|nearl
tevenveiht|vear|of|age|his|frst|marriag|was|to|ehzabeth|rchman
and|their|two|on|uer|richmond|bom|in|aprd|i799|and|die|n|one hundred and eighty-six
t|born|jnne|zero|t8o8|and|die|febrnari|x|eight hundred and sixty-eight|the|three
danohterswer|maria|born|septemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and four|and|die|februar|twelve
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|sarah|born|xugust|one thousand, eight hundred and one|and|die|april|five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|hannah
born|march|zero|i8m|and|die|decemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|the|second|w|e|of
jo|n|dickinson|was|sarah|cox|who|surviv|him|a|few|year|her|death
occur|tannarv|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|they|had|three|chddreu|ja|ie|born|sep|n
b|nine|i8|ehza|born|juli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|and|die|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|and|mahlon
of|this|sketch|who|with|his|sister|jane|of|their|entir|famili|alon|surviv
the|cox|who|were|earli|colonist|in|new|jersev|were|of|english|descent
miwod|dickinson|who|was|born|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|in|pile|grove
township|salem|countv|was|educ|in|the|common|hool|he|re
nain|on|the|home|farm|until|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|when|he|coimenc|erk|mg|m|t|le
drvgood|and|groceri|store|of|jame|lawri|of|w|oodstown|n|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|he
bean|farm|on|h|s|own|account|and|for|the|ensu|six|year|he|devot
h|mself|exclusivelv|to|this|line|of|endeavor|he|has|made|his|home|in
woodstown|uninterrupt|from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|sinc|which|time|he|has|oc
cupi|sever|import|local|offic|of|public|import|as|ong|ago|a
i8s5|he|was|honor|by|be|made|commission|of|deed|and|for|almo
fomfiv|vear|he|has|abli|fulfil|the|requir|of|this|posit|he
was|the|collector|of|his|home|township|for|three|year
year|has|been|a|justic|of|the|peac|for|thirtyhv|year|a|notari|pul|he|sm|e
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|and|at|present|is|serv|his|eighth|term|as|the|secretari|f|e|s|a|e
grang|he|use|his|franchis|in|favor|of|the|republican|parti|rel|giou|ly
he|is|a|baptist|and|for|near|thirti|year|has|held|the|posit|of|clerk|of|the
ln1846|a|marriag|ceremoni|was|perform|by|which|the|fortun|of
mr|dickinson|and|ellen|daughter|of|ephraim|and|rhoda|lame|mul
tord|were|unit|her|parent|pass|their|live|m|cumberland|counti|new
jersey|the|mother|who|was|born|novemb|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|was|a|descend|of
one|david|lame|who|emigr|from|wale|to|burlington|count|new
jersev|in|170s|the|children|born|to|our|subject|and|wife|were|seven|n
number|but|ollv|two|grew|up|name|georgiana|who|becam|the|wife|o
elmer|duell|of|oodstown|and|salli|who|is|unmarri|and|resid|a
home|the|entir|famili|is|high|esteem|and|known|for|good|work|and
help|toward|those|less|fortun
j2|biograph|histori|of|the|first
howard|a|wilson
howard|atkinson|wilson|i|d|a|promin|physician|of|woodburi
gloucest|counti|new|jers|was|born|in|haddonfield|camden|counti
this|state|septemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|is|a|son|of|rev|jame|eli|and|esther
bateman|wilson|the|wilson|famili|origin|in|wale|althoiigh|the
grandfath|jame|h|wilson|was|a|nativ|and|lifelong|resid|of|phila
delphia|in|which|citi|he|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|boot|and|shoe
he|was|the|father|of|three|children|lari|nn|deceas|who|marri
thoma|l|atkinson|of|camden|clark|who|marri|and|left|four|children
at|his|death|which|occur|in|earli|life|and|jame|eli
jame|eli|wilson|was|born|in|philadelphia|march|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|obtain
his|earli|educ|in|the|public|school|of|that|citi|later|enter|louisburg
univers|afterward|call|bucknel|univers|where|he|took|a|theolog
cours|and|graduat|he|was|ordain|a|minist|in|the|baptist|church|and
labor|faith|in|the|vineyard|of|the|master|until|his|life|of|use
was|end|by|death|june|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|when|his|mortal|remain|were|laid|to|rest
in|the|presbyterian|cemeteri|of|blackwood|this|state|a|pleas|and|elo
quent|speaker|he|gain|the|readi|sympathi|of|his|audienc|and|brought
mani|soul|to|a|sens|of|their|sin|and|the|knowledg|of|the|power|and
love|of|an|allwis|father|and|was|the|humbl|leader|of|mani|who|sought
the|fold|as|chaplain|of|the|ninetyninth|pennsylvania|volunt|dure
the|late|rebellion|he|was|faith|in|the|discharg|of|his|duti|and|gave|sym
pathi|to|mani|a|wretch|sufifer|his|marriag|to|miss|esther|bateman
took|place|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and|was|bless|with|a|larg|number|of|chil
dren|joseph|kennard|the|eldest|born|june|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|was|marri|octob
four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|to|miss|luci|taylor|who|was|born|octola|twenty|one hundred and eighty-five|one|and|resid
in|portland|main|anni|elizabeth|born|march|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|die|the|follow
ing|decemb|edgar|clark|born|august|six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|marri|mari|brace
the|widow|of|the|late|dr|clayton|and|resid|in|blackwood|camden|counti
this|state|howard|atkinson|is|the|next|of|the|famili|elmer|ellsworth|born
june|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|marri|miss|lucil|holli|juli|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|and|resid|at|black
wood|harri|bateman|born|octob|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|live|in|philadelphia|and
helen|augusta|born|octob|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|is|also|live|in|philadelphia|mrs
esther|wilson|is|now|resid|in|philadelphia|in|her|seventieth|year|at
the|begin|of|the|present|centuri|on|april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred|stephen|bateman
was|born|in|the|town|of|southway|connecticut|to|a|famih|in|the|rural|dis
trict|bless|with|a|good|sound|bodi|he|was|given|plenti|of|fresh|air
and|hard|work|and|laid|the|foundat|of|a|rug|constitut|that|carri
him|to|the|ripe|old|age|of|eightyseven|year|year|that|were|fill|with
congression|district|of|nejl|fersey|one hundred and seventy-three
kind|deed|and|beauti|thought|three|ear|later|on|april|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and three
in|the|neighbor|town|of|nagatuck|connecticut|imaria|benham|first
open|her|eye|to|the|light|of|day|these|two|grew|to|youth|year|met
and|love|each|other|with|an|ardor|that|culmin|in|their|betroth|and|on
septemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|they|were|duli|join|in|the|silken|cord|of|matrimoni
ten|children|were|ad|as|a|bless|to|their|home|and|their|descend
are|now|to|be|found|in|almost|everi|quarter|of|our|broad|land|harriet
goodyear|their|eldest|child|was|l|om|novemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|and|marri|jo
seph|morgan|cole|januari|twenty-nine|one hundred and eighty-five|one|esther|born|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|marri
jame|eli|wilson|and|is|the|mother|of|our|subject|cynthia|goodyear|liorn
august|six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|marri|robert|johnson|burt|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|augusta|hoad
ley|born|march|i|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|marri|william|w|heritag|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine
helen|carolin|bom|august|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|marri|benjamin|smith|eerett
june|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|edward|s|born|septemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|marri|salli|ood
novemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|henri|clay|l|orn|june|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|marri|salli|a|mlkin
april|two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|frank|born|februari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|marri|alic|rebecca|mar
shall|septemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|harrison|born|septemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|die|august
thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|and|charl|lewi|born|septemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|die|januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven
stephen|bateman|die|juli|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|age|eightyseven|year|three
month|and|twelv|day|spare|beyond|the|ordinari|allot|of|life|his
mental|power|were|unimpair|and|his|old|age|was|one|of|compar
activ|and|comfort|although|sight|and|hear|had|in|a|measur|fail
him|yet|he|was|abl|to|enjoy|the|companionship|of|his|famili|and|friend|and
to|the|last|took|a|live|interest|in|all|their|affair|possess|of|a|generous
natur|he|was|a|sourc|of|constant|bless|to|other|but|too|free|to|favor
the|person|accumul|of|wealth|he|was|a|blacksmith|l|y|trade|and
one|of|the|best|in|that|section|alway|readi|and|will|to|oblig|and
befriend|his|neighbor|he|bestow|upon|his|labor|for|their|conveni
the|greatest|care|yet|often|did|they|tax|both|patienc|and|skill|even|after
his|retir|from|activ|life|wherev|he|was|he|alway|found|some
deed|of|use|and|unselfish|to|perform|and|the|accomplish|of
it|afford|him|the|keenest|pleasur|he|was|of|a|cheer|social|disposit
and|ever|readi|with|joke|or|song|to|beguil|a|tedious|hour|or|give|amus
ment|to|those|around|him|he|was|of|a|deepli|religi|natur|although|he
was|undemonstr|and|his|innat|diffid|kept|him|from|publiclv|affirm
ing|it|yet|his|faith|was|observ|in|his|everyday|life|and|bound|him|to
the|strict|perform|of|his|christian|duti|in|his|chamber|were|his
bibl|and|book|of|spiritu|text|and|often|was|his|voic|heard|in|privat
devot|and|supplic|he|ripen|spiritu|as|physic|strength|de
cline|and|though|his|death|was|sudden|it|did|not|find|him|unprepar
one hundred and seventy-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|was|but|the|fit|climax|to|a|beauti|round|christian|life|his
wife|had|preced|him|across|the|silent|river|on|xoxemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|cl
there|await|a|bliss|reunion|the|descend|of|this|worthi|coupl
hold|a|famili|reunion|each|year|at|the|resid|of|some|of|the|member
and|the|minut|of|each|meet|are|regular|print|in|pamphlet|form|for
souvenir|of|the|occas
howard|a|wilson|was|a|student|in|the|public|school|of|burlington
new|jersey|and|there|acquir|the|greater|part|of|his|primari|educ
later|he|attend|the|south|jersey|institut|at|bridgeton|and|subsequ
enter|the|polytechn|colleg|at|provid|rhode|island|he|then
took|a|medic|cours|in|the|jefiferson|medic|colleg|in|philadelphia
graduat|in|that|institut|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|read|medicin|under|the
guidanc|of|dr|elisha|munger|of|niantic|connecticut|and|open|an|oflfic
for|the|practic|of|his|profess|in|deerfield|cumberland|counti|new
jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|after|remain|there|two|year|he|locat|in|oodburi
where|he|enjoy|a|continu|and|extend|patronag|from|the|best|class|of
patient|although|his|servic|are|will|bestow|on|rich|and|poor|alik
and|mani|an|unfortun|suffer|has|had|becaus|to|bless|the|kind|heart|and
minist|hand|of|dr|wilson
he|was|marri|near|woodstown|this|state|to|mari|e|morgan|daugh
ter|of|the|late|israel|l|and|talitha|conov|morgan|the|ceremoni|be
perform|septemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|they|have|three|children|howard|a|born
decemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|mari|esther|wdio|was|born|juli|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|die|on
the|27th|of|the|follow|june|and|alic|morgan|born|octob|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
the|doctor|is|a|member|of|the|new|jersey|state|medic|societi|and|the
gloucest|counti|medic|societi|is|an|honorari|member|of|the|salem
counti|medic|societi|and|a|member|of|the|woodburi|board|of|educa
tion|he|is|a|republican|in|his|polit|view|and|a|member|of|the|baptist
church|of|wliich|he|is|a|deacon|and|presid|of|the|board|of|truste
jonathan|c|jame
jonathan|c|jame|who|is|engag|in|farm|and|in|the|manufactur
of|lumber|near|sea|isl|junction|was|born|in|dennisvill|new|jersey
april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|his|parent|be|enoch|and|nanci|hitchner|jame|his
father|was|a|nativ|of|south|denni|this|state|and|was|a|wheelwright|mill
wright|and|farmer|for|mani|year|he|was|a|resid|of|dennisvill|and
there|his|death|occur|dure|the|war|of|one hundred and eighty-one|two|he|join|the|armi|and
serv|as|a|fifer|his|polit|support|was|given|the|men|and|measur|of
coxgressioxl|district|of|xejf|jersey|one hundred and seventy-five
the|democraci|in|his|famili|were|six|children|four|son|and|two
daughter|maria|the|wife|of|hraham|reev|thoma|a|carpent|who
marri|susan|ross|by|whom|he|had|two|daughter|anna|eliza|and
mar|jane|enoch|a|farmer|carpent|and|contractor|who|marri|maria
townsend|and|had|four|children|enoch|fanni|maria|and|fred|hannah
wife|of|jame|ludlow|a|farmer|and|sea|captain|by|whom|she|had|three|chil
dren|john|anna|and|frank|john|a|carpent|who|wed|mari|carrol
their|children|be|bell|harri|and|bertha|and|jonathan|c|of|this|review
the|father|of|these|children|die|at|the|age|of|seventyf|year|and|the
mother|pass|away|at|the|age|of|eightyfour|year
jonathan|c|jame|pursu|his|educ|in|the|ludlam|school|in|den
nisvill|and|afterward|learn|the|carpent|s|trade|which|he|follow|for
twentyf|year|on|the|expir|of|that|period|he|turn|his|attent
to|farm|and|to|the|lumber|busi|get|out|timber|and|cordwood
and|oper|a|steam|sawmil|near|seal|isl|junction|in|this|undertak
he|has|met|with|credit|success|and|in|addit|to|the|conduct|of|the|mill
he|own|and|cultiv|a|farm|of|one|hundr|and|sixtyf|acr|which|is
high|improv|and|yield|a|good|return|for|the|labor|and|attent|which
mr|jame|bestow|upon|it|he|employ|eight|men|in|the|sawmil|and|the
output|of|the|mill|find|a|readi|sale|upon|the|local|market
on|the|two|1st|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|mr|jame|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
sarah|carrol|a|daughter|of|henri|carrol|and|to|them|have|been|born
four|children|the|eldest|be|clara|mari|is|the|wife|of|rev|charl|law
renc|of|haddonfield|by|whom|she|has|two|children|edson|and|mari
charl|the|third|child|of|subject|marri|lydia|robinson|and|has|nine
children|milton|deceas|sarah|cora|fanni|jonathan|alic|georg
and|harriet|twin|and|carrol|anna|the|youngest|child|of|our|subject
is|the|wife|of|professor|david|davi|of|haddonfield|new|jersey
mr|jame|hold|a|membership|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|and
in|his|polit|faith|is|a|democrat|but|has|never|sought|or|desir|offic
prefer|to|devot|his|time|and|energi|to|his|busi|interest|in|which
he|is|meet|with|signal|success
willi|a|i|s|richman
illiam|s|richman|of|malaga|gloucest|counti|xew|jersey|is|the
popular|assessor|of|franklin|township|and|resid|on|a|farm|near|the|vil
lage|he|was|born|in|this|neighborhood|as|was|his|father|joshua|rich
man|his|grandfath|gideon|was|of|english|parentag|joshua|rich
one hundred and seventy-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
man|was|a|man|who|had|made|his|own|way|in|the|world|and|had|eeri|rea
son|to|be|proud|of|the|progress|he|had|made|he|was|a|great|reader|and
possess|a|keen|intelhg|that|made|him|a|man|among|men|he|was|a
freehold|and|held|a|number|of|other|offic|he|was|a|farmer|and|lumber
man|a|shrewd|busi|man|and|accumul|consider|properti|which
was|divid|among|his|children|at|his|death|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|was|unit
in|marriag|with|miss|mari|kandl|a|daughter|of|adam|kandl|who|bore
him|nine|children|five|of|whom|surviv|her|they|are|adam|k|a|miller|of
this|place|a|b|also|a|miller|of|this|vicin|daniel|of|new|york|william
s|our|subject|and|gideon|who|resid|in|the|state|of|pennsylvania
william|s|richman|attend|the|common|school|of|his|district|in|earli
life|and|soon|began|clerk|in|a|store|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|was|appoint|the|post
master|of|malaga|for|four|year|and|his|accommod|manner|and|cour
teous|treatment|would|have|won|even|ani|who|were|not|alreadi|list|as
his|friend|he|is|well|known|in|polit|circl|and|has|held|a|number|of
township|offic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|elect|assessor|and|has|discharg|his
duti|in|an|abl|and|conscienti|manner
the|ladi|whom|he|chose|as|his|wife|was|former|miss|jenni|small
wood|the|daughter|of|samuel|p|smallwood|a|resid|of|this|section
they|had|three|children|two|of|whom|onli|are|live|helen|and|rachel
mr|richman|has|alway|affili|with|the|democrat|parti|but|is|a|man
who|has|warm|friend|in|the|rank|of|both|parti|and|is|deserv|of|the
esteem|in|which|he|is|held
john|gayner
new|jersey|is|5reeminentl|a|manufactur|state|and|ship|her|product
to|all|part|of|the|world|and|probabl|no|town|within|her|border|add
more|to|the|ship|list|than|salem|this|thrive|littl|citi|is|situat|in
the|counti|of|that|name|on|the|salem|river|and|is|direct|connect|by
the|delawar|river|as|well|as|by|rail|with|philadelphia|which|is|the|prin
cipal|ship|point|in|this|part|of|the|counti|among|the|lead|indus
tri|which|have|contribut|larg|to|the|growth|and|prosper|of|salem
is|that|own|and|control|by|the|gayner|glass|compani|which|compani
is|incorpor|with|a|capit|stock|of|fifti|thousand|dollar|with|john|gay
ner|as|presid|edward|gayner|treasur|and|john|w|gayner|secretari
in|the|factori|employ|is|furnish|to|a|larg|forc|of|oper|and
the|mammoth|busi|is|the|outgrowth|of|the|person|effort|and|industri
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and seventy-seven
of|john|gayner|whose|name|introduc|this|review|one|of|the|most|promi
nent|busi|men|in|his|section|of|the|state
he|was|born|decemls|five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|and|is|a|nativ|of|england|as|were|his
father|and|grandfath|the|latter|john|gayner|sr|was|a|resid|of
bristol|england|where|edward|gayner|the|father|was|born|and|spent|his
entir|life|there|he|was|marri|on|the|7th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|to|elizabeth
parker|he|was|celebr|in|his|nativ|town|for|his|abiuti|as|a|manag
have|charg|of|a|glass|factori|into|which|he|took|his|son|teach|them
the|busi|three|of|them|have|made|it|their|life|occup|the|father
die|at|the|age|of|sixtyeight|year|and|the|mother|pass|away|at|the|age|of
seventyfour|in|their|famili|were|thirteen|children|name|eliza|who
was|born|juli|five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|die|septemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|john|was|born|decemb|five
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|edward|born|januari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|was|in|earli|life|a|glassblow|of
bristol|england|but|afterward|becam|a|resid|of|norristown|pennsyl
vania|jame|who|was|born|octob|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|locat|in|australia|where
he|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|eliza|born|februari|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|die
when|about|twentyf|year|of|age|robert|born|sejitemli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|is
a|resid|of|bristol|england|richard|who|is|also|live|in|bristol|was
born|februari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|frank|born|novemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|locat|in|san
francisco|california|mari|born|april|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|is|still|hving|in|england
mathew|who|was|bom|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|came|to|this|countri|with|his
brother|john|but|soon|return|to|england|and|his|present|place|of|resi
denc|is|not|known|to|his|famili|ann|born|decemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|is|still|live
in|england|georg|who|learn|the|trade|of|shoemak|is|follow|that
pursuit|in|the|land|of|his|nativ|and|hannah|born|juli|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|is|marri
and|resid|in|england
john|gavner|is|larg|a|selfeduc|as|well|as|selfmad|man|have
littl|opportun|to|attend|the|day|school|he|pursu|his|studi|in|even
class|and|by|read|and|observ|has|ad|larg|to|his|knowledg
at|the|age|of|twelv|year|he|enter|the|glass|work|of|which|his|father
was|manag|and|after|two|year|he|was|apprent|to|the|firm|of|coath
upe|compani|of|bristol|and|nailsea|england|for|a|sevenyear|term
to|learn|the|art|of|window|glass|and|shade|blow|he|was|to|be|paid
seven|shill|or|about|a|dollar|and|seventyf|cent|a|week|for|the|first
vear|and|to|receiv|a|shill|addit|each|week|through|each|succeed
year|until|his|wage|had|becom|twelv|shill|or|three|dollar|3er|week|for
the|sixth|and|seventh|year|the|firm|was|so|well|pleas|with|the|manner
in|which|he|serv|his|apprenticeship|that|he|was|present|with|the|follow
ino|letter
one hundred and seventy-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
sheet|crown|glass|work
februari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three
to|all|whom|it|may|concern|the|bearer|john|gayner|has|serv|his
time|with|us|as|a|sheetglass|blower|for|seven|year|and|i|have|much|pleasur
in|state|that|throughout|the|whole|of|his|time|he|conduct|himself|with
strict|proprieti|so|much|so|as|to|induc|us|to|enter|upon|an|immedi|en
gagement|with|him|as|a|journeyman|he|is|a|veri|good|workman|and|of
sober|steadi|and|industri|habit|superior|to|most|of|a|similar|class|i
am|further|your|erv|truli
oliv|coathup
the|compani|offer|him|five|pound|twentyf|dollar|if|he|would
enter|into|anoth|agreement|for|anoth|year|as|a|journeyman|and|at|the|end
of|that|time|renew|their|contract|and|thus|kept|him|in|their|servic|until
their|retir|from|busi|about|four|year|later|he|was|with|that
compani|and|it|successor|for|twelv|year|and|then|withdrew|with|the|in
tention|of|engag|in|busi|on|his|own|account|have|acquir|quit
a|littl|capit|as|the|result|of|his|industri|and|economi|accord|he
began|oper|in|bristol|in|an|old|desert|flint|factori|manufactur
glass|shade|but|he|found|that|he|had|veri|strong|competit|and|that
the|enterpris|would|not|prove|a|profit|one|for|this|reason|he|close
out|the|busiuicss|and|sever|his|home|tie|start|for|the|new|world
take|passag|on|the|nova|scotia|he|was|accompani|by|his|wife|and
six|children|and|after|about|fourteen|day|spent|on|the|water|land|in|port
land|main|with|twentyf|dollar|in|his|pocket|the|same|day|he|took
the|train|for|boston|where|he|secur|a|posit|in|the|crystal|glass|work
be|there|employ|until|the|last|of|juli|when|the|factori|close|down
never|to|resum|busi|again|find|himself|out|of|work|with|a|larg
famili|depend|upon|him|and|fund|get|low|he|start|out|again|and
obtain|a|posit|at|bergen|point|new|jersey|he|enter|upon|the
duti|of|his|new|posit|in|august|and|the|follow|septemb|that|busi
ness|also|was|close|down|and|did|not|resum|oper|until|some|time
afterward|and|never|again|at|that|place
mr|gayner|then|went|to|syracus|new|york|but|after|four|month
pass|there|he|was|call|home|on|account|of|the|ill|of|his|wife|he
had|enter|the|seric|of|the|syracus|compani|with|the|understand
that|he|might|return|to|caven|point|when|the|old|bergen|point|compani
which|was|to|be|reorgan|should|need|him|as|that|compani|was|almost
readi|to|resum|busi|he|did|not|return|to|syracus|but|remov|his
famili|to|caven|point|the|place|where|john|william|gayner|the|present
coxgressiox|district|of|xejv|jersey|one hundred and seventy-nine
secretari|of|the|gayner|glass|compani|was|born|may|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|but|the
new|place|of|resid|afford|no|school|or|church|privileg|and|ir|gay
ner|with|a|desir|to|give|his|children|good|educ|advantag|went|to
xorristown|pennsylvania|where|a|new|glass|factori|was|be|open
under|the|manag|of|jacob|green|he|accept|a|posit|as|window
glass|and|shade|blower|and|for|two|or|three|year|was|fortun|in|have
continu|work|dure|which|jieriod|through|the|assist|of|his|estim
abl|wife|he|was|enabl|to|save|some|money|on|the|27th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine
they|made|their|first|payment|nine|hundr|dollar|on|their|first|littl
home|which|they|purchas|of|william|yaughan|not|long|after|this|mr
gayner|was|otter|the|posit|of|manag|of|a|window|glass|work|at
wheel|west|virginia|and|remov|to|that|place|where|he|remain|until
ofif|the|posit|of|superintend|of|the|factori|at|norristown|in|which
he|had|former|been|employ|he|then|return|to|the|keyston|and|on
leav|wheel|he|was|given|the|follow|letter
to|whom|it|may|concern|the|bearer|air|john|gayner|has|been|in
my|employ|as|manag|in|the|window|glass|hous|and|i|herebi|recommend
him|as|a|sober|and|capabl|man|and|compet|superintend
georg|w|robinson
wheel|west|virginia|deceml|er|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen
after|take|charg|of|the|xorristown|plant|mr|gayner|found|it|in|a
bad|financi|condit|he|hope|to|straighten|out|it|affair|howev|and
when|ask|to|go|on|a|note|to|pay|the|workmen|he|consent|he|found
though|that|the|busi|was|too|much|involv|and|the|demand|of|the
creditor|could|not|be|put|oft|so|that|he|lost|all|of|his|save|by|this|act|of
kind|at|the|sheriff|s|sale|a|banker|purchas|the|factori|but|befor
do|so|ask|mr|gayner|if|he|thought|he|could|make|a|success|of|the
busi|if|money|was|furnish|him|mr|gayner|repli|he|thought|he
could|and|accord|was|hire|to|superintend|the|work|after|three
verv|success|year|dure|which|the|enterpris|prove|a|veri|profit|one
for|it|owner|and|when|he|had|just|complet|the|furnac|for|a|fourth|year|s
work|he|was|ask|to|resign|ish|to|know|the|reason|for|this|he|was
told|that|the|other|workmen|were|dissatisfi|which|was|caus|by|a|jealous
spirit|as|they|note|his|advanc|and|they|persuad|the|banker|that
it|was|useless|to|pay|mr|gayner|so|much|for|manag|when|his|own|son
could|do|just|as|well|the|banker|desir|of|save|the|salari|paid|mr
gavner|fell|in|with|the|plan|of|the|workmen|and|not|onli|ask|for|mr
gayner|s|resign|but|also|collect|the|note|which|mr|gayner|had|sign
for|the|bankrupt|compani|amount|to|about|two|thousand|dollar
l8o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|ear|follow|mr|gayner|s|retir|affair|move|with|some
degre|of|success|in|the|factori|but|with|less|the|next|year|and|the|third
year|he|was|ask|to|return|and|assum|the|manag|again|this|he
refus|to|do|and|thing|kept|go|from|bad|to|wors|six|time|was|he
solicit|to|return|but|each|time|he|refus|and|the|factori|was|at|length
close|down|and|is|now|fall|into|decay
in|the|meantim|mr|gayner|with|the|few|hundr|dollar|which|re
main|to|him|of|his|earn|had|remov|his|famili|to|waterford|new
jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|and|there|went|into|busi|with|mauric|raleigh|after
two|year|mr|raleigh|withdrew|and|through|the|follow|year|the|busi
was|conduct|by|the|firm|of|gayner|mcdevitt|on|the|expir|of
that|period|mr|gayner|start|a|veri|small|furnac|for|make|glass|shade
and|enter|into|partnership|with|s|j|pardessus|of|new|york|citi|in
juli|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|they|remov|their|busi|to|salem|new|jersey|where|they
employ|six|or|seven|men|the|firm|of|gayner|pardessus|was|dissolv
in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|the|senior|partner|wish|to|admit|his|son|to|a|partner
ship|in|the|busi|he|consid|that|the|substanti|foundat|of|his
present|prosper|was|laid|dure|the|year|of|his|partnership|with|mr|par
dessus|for|he|found|in|him|a|true|friend|to|whom|he|feel|most|grate|he
is|now|conduct|the|largest|fruitjar|manufactori|in|the|east|his|sale
amount|to|over|one|hundr|thousand|dollar|annual|year|by|year
his|busi|has|increas|until|it|has|assum|extens|proport|and|at
the|same|time|he|has|seen|those|who|use|him|unfair|gradual|lose|their
busi|until|it|was|involv|in|utter|failur
yh|gayner|has|been|twice|marri|he|first|wed|franc|atkin|and
to|them|were|born|six|children|four|of|whom|reach|year|of|matur
franci|margaret|edward|j|and|frederick|charl|the|mother|of|these
children|die|at|the|age|of|twentyeight|year|and|ir|gayner|was|marri
octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|to|miss|elizabeth|wilkin|by|whom|he|had|sever|chil
dren|all|of|whom|die|in|infanc|with|the|except|of|j|william|and|eliza
florenc|the|latter|the|wife|of|frank|morrison|a|clerk|in|the|offic|of|sir
gayner|the|mother|was|call|to|her|final|rest|septemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
sinc|locat|in|salem|mr|gayner|has|made|mani|friend|by|his|honor
abl|deal|and|is|now|one|of|the|most|popular|and|esteem|citizen|of
the|counti|he|is|a|valu|member|of|the|independ|order|of|odd|fel
low|and|of|the|methodist|church|and|is|a|publicspirit|citizen|who|take
a|commend|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|welfar|and|progress
of|the|communiti|along|educ|social|materi|and|moral|line|his
success|is|most|credit|be|the|result|of|his|own|well|dire|fted|effort
his|close|applic|to|busi|his|persever|and|capaljl|manag
coxgressioxil|district|of|xe|j|jersey|i8i
have|brought|to|him|a|degre|of|prosi|eriti|which|numlier|him|among|tlie
wealthier|men|of|his|adopt|counti|his|life|is|an|exemplif|of|what
mav|be|accomplish|through|determin|purpos|and|laudabl|ambit|in
a|land|where|merit|and|talent|are|not|hamper|by|cast|or|class|and|w|here
opportun|is|o|en|to|all|who|care|to|advanc
edard|i|gayner
edward|j|gavner|occupi|the|promin|and|respons|posit|of
treasur|of|the|gayner|glass|comjani|and|possess|undoubt|busi
abilitv|he|stand|high|in|the|esteem|of|his|fellow|citizen|and|is|consid
a|man|of|most|exemplari|charact
he|is|a|son|of|john|and|franc|gayner|and|came|to|america|w|ith|his
parent|and|four|lrother|and|sister|when|he|was|but|a|lad|he|was|born
near|bristol|england|as|were|his|father|and|grandfath|edward|gayner
his|grandfath|was|a|promin|glasswork|in|his|nativ|citi|and|had|the
manag|of|the|factori|situat|in|bristol|for|mani|year|he|marri
eliza|parker|and|hafl|twelv|children|who|are|now|wide|scatter|in|dif
ferent|part|of|the|world|jame|went|to|australia|where|he|is|a|glass
lilow|and|sever|of|the|son|sought|home|in|america|among|them
frank|a|resid|of|san|trancisco|california|edward|a|glassblow|of
norristovvn|pennsylvania|and|john|the|father|of|our|subject
john|gayner|had|unusu|advantag|for|becom|familiar|with|the
work|of|glassmak|as|he|enter|the|factori|as|soon|as|his|school|day
were|end|and|remain|there|until|he|was|profici|in|the|work|he
marri|and|had|five|children|when|he|decid|to|locat|in|america|which
he|did|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|after|visit|sever|place|among|them|boston|massa
chusett|jersey|citi|new|jersey|norristown|pennsylvania|heel
west|virginia|and|waterforcl|this|state|he|settl|in|salem|and|start|a
glass|factori|here|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|this|was|necessarili|begun|on|a|small|scale|and
employ|but|six|or|seen|men|the|busi|increas|steadili|but|he|con
tinu|at|the|same|place|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|when|the|build|were|destroy|by
fire|and|then|he|rebuilt|on|a|more|extens|scale|the|factori|now|occu
pie|four|acr|of|land|and|is|sup|lie|with|all|modern|machineri|to|facilit
the|work|enabl|them|to|turn|out|sixteen|ton|of|good|per|dav|he|first
marri|franc|atkin|b|whom|he|had|six|children|four|of|whom|grew|to
manhood|and|womanhood|franci|margaret|edward|j|our|subject|and
frederick|c|his|second|wife|was|miss|elizabeth|wilkin|who|with|her|two
children|william|and|eliza|florenc|are|still|live|the|latter|the|wife|of
frank|morrison|who|is|employ|in|the|offic|of|the|glass|companw
i82|biograph|histori|op|thp|pirst
eclwaixl|j|gayner|receiv|lii|earlier|educ|in|england|and|was|a
student|in|the|school|of|this|countri|for|six|year|at|boston|massachu
sett|bergen|new|jersey|and|norristown|pennsylvania|after|the|glass
work|were|estaljlish|he|enter|the|factori|and|learn|the|trade|of|win
dowglass|cut|at|norristown|follow|his|father|to|waterford|and
salem|there|learn|the|busi|and|rise|at|length|to|the|posit|of
treasur|and|be|activ|identifi|with|the|actual|manag|of|the
plant|he|is|a|shrewd|busi|man|whose|common|sens|and|sound|judg
ment|make|him|promin|in|busi|circl|he|has|render|his|father
invalu|assist|in|run|the|factori|and|aim|to|make|onli|the|best
good|the|employ|one|hundr|and|seventif|hand|men|women
and|girl|and|use|onli|modern|method|have|two|machin|for|the
construct|of|box|and|a|seaman|gasmelt|tank|furnac|they|ship
larg|to|jobber|but|also|suppli|retail|send|their|good|to|all|part
of|the|countri|thev|manufactur|larg|quantiti|of|fruitjar|and|also
make|batteri|jar|and|hae|taken|out|a|patent|on|the|mold|for|a|storag
batteri|jar
air|gayner|was|marri|januari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|to|miss|rebecca|c|filler
daughter|of|joseph|miller|a|farmer|of|burlington|counti|this|state|they
have|been|bless|by|the|birth|of|six|bright|children|sarah|edna|john|m
joseph|f|rebecca|margaret|and|marion|mr|iayner|is|a|man|of|a|tleepli
religi|natur|consist|and|earnest|in|all|his|act|and|has|been|a|power
for|good|in|this|communiti|where|he|has|taken|an|activ|interest|in|the|becaus
of|prohibit|and|endeavor|to|advanc|public|opinion|both|by|exampl
and|precept|he|is|a|member|of|the|broadway|methodist|episcop|church
at|salem|and|count|ani|work|connect|therewith|a|privileg|give|freeli
of|both|time|and|money|he|has|been|an|incumb|in|each|offic|in|the
church|serv|as|a|truste|steward|choirlead|classlead|sundayschool
chorist|presid|of|the|epworth|leagu|and|assist|superintend|of
the|sundavschool
edmund|jone
edmund|jone|who|is|engag|in|merchandis|in|franklin|was|born
near|elmer|salem|counti|on|the|14th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|his|father|joseph
jone|first|open|his|eye|to|the|light|of|day|on|the|same|farm|and|the
grandfath|john|jone|was|also|a|farmer|the|famili|is|of|welsh|origin
two|brother|of|the|same|name|have|left|the|littl|rockrib|countri|of
wale|to|becom|resid|of|the|new|world|cross|the|atlant|thev
cokgression|district|of|keir|jersey
i8
took|up|their|resid|in|harrisonviu|and|their|descend|have|snice
leen|o|d|in|new|jersey|joseph|jone|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and
nt846|remov|to|eher|where|he|embark|in|merchand|smg|be|ng|the
owner|o|two|store|at|that|place|for|three|year|he|becam|the|leadu
tusi|man|of|the|town|and|it|commerci|prosper|geli|defend
upon|his|effort|he|was|also|a|recogn|factor|m|polit|affair|his
renc|be|surpass|bv|no|resid|of|salem|counti|he
township|offic|and|gave|an|earnest|and|activ|support|to|the|democrat
par|in|busi|he|met|with|remark|success|his|enterpris|keen
discern|and|care|manag|make|him|a|veri|pptm
chant|in|manner|he|was|veri|genial|cordial|and|courteous|and|was|a|most
delight|host|be|abl|to|entertain|his|friend|in|yj
his|interest|center|in|his|famili|and|it|seem|as|though|he|d|t|do
too|much|to|enhanc|the|welfar|and|happi|of|his|wife|and|children|he
marri|marv|a|van|meter|of|salem|counti|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|b|er
m|r|age|shebecam|the|mother|of|seven|children|of|whom|four|are|hvmg
edmund|charl|w|a|realest|oper|of|richlan|new|ersey|sarah
j|the|wife|of|lewi|du|boi|of|atchison|kansa|and|sa|v|of|wat
on|corner|salem|counti|the|father|of|this|faim|die|eight hundred and eighty-seven|at|the
age|of|eighti|year|and|in|his|death|the|communitv|lost|one|of|it|most
valu|influenti|and|respect|citizen
the|educ|privileg|which|edmund|jone|receiv
m|the|age|of|sixteen|year|when|his|father|went|into|busi|m|elmer|he
enter|t|e|store|and|act|as|cashier|and|bookkeep|an|exteis|b
ness|was|carri|on|and|for|a|time|he|was|the|manag|of|one|of|the|store|at
tl|i|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|came|to|franklinvill|gloucest|connti|where|he
tan|merchandis|on|his|own|account|success|has|attend|his|effort
from|the|begin|and|he|has|constant|enlarg|his|facil|m|ord|o
meet|the|grow|demand|of|his|trade|have|now|one|of|he|ost|omplet
and|best|appoint|general|store|in|this|section|of|the|state|his|efor
hae|not|been|confin|to|one|line|for|he|is|a|man|of|resourc|busi
abilitv|and|has|extend|his|field|of|oper|in|f|seven|m|connect|wih
other|s|he|organ|the|fanner|mechan|bank|of|woodbuiy|be
one|of|the|lead|stockhold|and|a|director|and|vicepresid|of|the|i|am
stitut|he|spend|two|or|three|day|each|week|in|the|and|his|e
counsel|has|been|an|import|factor|in|it|success|conduct|he|the
owner|of|over|twentytwo|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|laud|but|rent|the
greater|part|of|his|properti
sinc|arriv|in|eranklinvill|ir|jone|has|taken|an|activ|mteiest|in
polidc|and|has|held|all|of|the|township|offic|have|been|m|public|servic
i84|biograph|histori|of|the|first
for|thirtytwo|year|a|record|which|stand|an|unniistakaljl|evid|of|lii
abil|and|faithfuhiess|he|as|a|freeliold|for|seven|year|retir|from
that|offic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|and|in|the|fall|of|the|same|year|he|was|elect|counti
sherifif|serv|for|four|year|the|counti|has|usual|given|a|republican
major|of|from|eight|to|twelv|hundr|but|he|was|elect|on|a|democrat
ticket|by|a|major|of|six|hundr|a|fact|which|indic|his|person|popu
lariti|and|the|confid|repos|in|him|on|the|i6th|of|februari|i860
was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|jone|and|miss|harriet|s|wilson|a
daughter|of|thoma|wilson|of|gloucest|counti|and|a|repres|of|a
promin|famili|they|have|two|children|harri|w|and|wilson|t|both
at|home|the|eldest|son|is|now|serv|as|a|freehold|of|the|counti|and|the
youngest|one|is|serv|as|a|township|clerk|the|famili|is|one|of|promin
in|the|communiti|and|it|repres|occupi|envialjl|posit|in|social
busi|and|polit|circl
robert|t|seagrav
there|is|probabl|no|man|in|the|communiti|asid|from|those|who|have
consecr|their|live|to|the|ministri|who|have|exert|a|stronger|influenc
for|the|uplift|of|human|than|robert|t|seagrav|in|busi|life
he|has|achiev|a|splendid|success|and|acquir|a|handsom|compet
but|though|his|busi|care|and|respons|were|mani|he|has|yet|found
time|and|opportun|to|promot|the|interest|and|movement|which|tend
to|the|better|of|the|race|and|has|long|been|a|recogn|leader|in|the
temper|and|religi|work|of|the|communiti
a|nativ|of|salem|counti|he|was|born|in|maimington|township|januari
thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|his|parent|be|william|k|and|mari|tuft|seagrav|the
name|is|of|english|origin|and|it|first|repres|in|america|took|up|his
abod|in|cape|may|counti|new|jersey|in|earli|coloni|day|dure|the
progress|of|the|revolut|the|famili|was|found|in|elsinboro|township
salem|counti|and|it|member|have|sinc|been|activ|factor|in|promot
the|vari|interest|of|the|counti|along|moral|educ|and|materi
line|illiam|seagrav|the|grandfath|was|a|fanner|of|mannington
township|where|he|own|two|hundr|acr|of|land|a|part|of|which|is|now
in|possess|of|our|suljject|there|he|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|until
his|death|he|was|a|member|and|deacon|in|the|baptist|church|in|salem|and
took|a|veri|activ|and|zealous|part|in|it|work|one|of|his|brother|samuel
seagrav|a|veri|intellig|man|serv|as|a|captain|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve
j
coxgressiox|district|of|xeij|jersey|one hundred and eighty-five
and|made|his|liom|in|lannington|township|wilham|seagrav|was|the
father|of|two|children|rebecca|and|illiam|k|the|former|now|deceas
becam|the|wife|of|wilham|lawrenc|a|farmer|of|mannington|township
and|they|had|six|children|william|joseph|edward|susan|mari|and|john
william|k|seagrav|was|born|in|mannington|township|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|ob
tain|a|good|english|educ|and|becam|a|surveyor|he|follow|that
vocat|throughout|the|greater|part|of|his|life|and|laid|out|mani|of|the
road|in|this|section|of|the|counti|he|also|engag|in|schoolteach|and
in|farm|in|mannington|township|and|subsequ|remov|to|lower
penn|s|neck|township|where|he|spent|his|last|day|upon|a|farm|he|exer
cise|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of|the|democrat|parti|and|held|a
number|of|local|ofific|the|duti|of|which|he|discharg|with|prompt
and|fidel|in|the|baptist|church|of|salem|he|held|a|membership|serv|as
one|of|it|deacon|and|aid|larg|in|it|work|do|all|in|his|power|for|it
growth|and|upbuild|the|becaus|of|educ|also|found|in|him|a|warm
friend|and|as|truste|he|did|effect|servic|in|the|interest|of|the|school
he|die|may|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|at|the|age|of|fortyon|year|and|his|wife|pass|away
in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|at|the|advanc|age|of|eightytwo|year|this|worthi
coupl|were|the|parent|of|seven|children|sarah|marri|dr|scott|stewart
a|veri|promin|physician|of|philadelphia|who|die|and|left|the|money|for
the|erect|of|the|methodist|hospit|of|that|citi|villiam|k|began|studi
ing|for|the|ministri|but|die|befor|complet|the|cours|robert|t|is
the|third|in|order|of|birth|jame|m|engag|in|the|ship|busi|but
is|now|deceas|georg|w|die|at|the|age|of|sixteen|year|dr|joseph
s|was|a|graduat|of|the|jefferson|medic|colleg|and|engag|in|the|prac
tice|of|medicin|in|philadelphia|up|to|the|time|of|his|death|which|occur
wdien|he|was|about|thirti|year|of|age|dr|clermont|s|the|youngest
was|a|graduat|of|jefterson|medic|colleg|and|also|studi|medicin|for
a|year|in|edinburg|scotland|but|is|now|deceas
in|the|district|school|robert|t|seagrav|began|his|educ|which
was|continu|in|the|salem|literari|institut|he|began|busi|when
seventeen|year|of|age|becom|identifi|with|the|agricultur|interest|of
lower|penn|s|neck|township|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|there|he|carri|on|farm|until
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|ad|to|his|properti|there|until|he|had|two|hundr|and|twenti
five|acr|which|he|place|under|a|high|state|of|cultiv|the|welltil
field|yield|to|him|a|golden|tribut|in|return|for|the|care|and|labor|he
bestow|upon|them|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|remov|to|salem|and|retir|from|activ
busi|save|the|manag|of|his|land|possess|in|addit|to|the
old|homestead|he|has|one|hundr|and|twenti|acr|in|mannington|town
ship|besid|wood|land|and|other|properti|in|differ|section|of|the
i86|biograph|histori|of|the|first
counti|his|dilig|and|capabl|manag|have|brought|to|him|a
veri|desir|success|in|his|busi|affair|and|have|acquir|a|hand
some|compet|he|is|now|enabl|to|live|a|retir|life|he|certain|de
serv|great|credit|for|what|he|has|accomplish|for|in|his|youth|he|not|onli
had|to|provid|for|his|own|support|but|was|the|mainstay|of|his|mother|and
her|famili|his|father|die|when|he|was|quit|young|and|in|connect|with
his|mother|he|manag|and|oper|the|home|farm|and|provid|for|the
educ|of|the|children|aid|them|to|becom|comfortabh|settl|in|life
mr|seagrav|was|marri|januari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|miss|mari|m|gay|becom
ing|his|wife|she|is|a|daughter|of|thoma|gay|of|boston|massachusett
and|is|a|most|estim|ladi|who|share|in|the|high|regard|in|which|her|hus
band|is|uniform|held
polit|mr|seagrav|is|a|prohibitionist|and|is|a|recogn|leader
in|the|temper|work|in|the|counti|teach|both|by|precept|and|exampl
that|abstin|is|the|best|cours|the|becaus|of|educ|find|in|him|a
warm|and|zealous|friend|he|has|serv|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|trus
tee|of|the|south|jersey|institut|at|bridgeton|fill|that|posit|for|six
teen|year|he|contribut|liber|to|the|support|of|the|school|and|also|per
sonal|solicit|fund|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|was|appoint|to|rais|an|endow
fund|and|secur|fiftyseven|thousand|dollar|for|that|purpos|and|when
the|work|was|success|accomplish|he|resign|his|posit|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
he|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste|of|the|xew|jersey|baptist|state|con
vention|and|treasur|of|the|baptist|associ|of|the|state|of|new|jersey
for|sever|year|he|has|serv|as|a|deacon|of|the|church|of|that|denomina
tion|in|saleii|and|his|labor|lae|been|veri|effect|in|advanc|it|inter
est|he|is|also|the|treasur|of|the|lioard|of|truste|of|the|young|men|s
christian|associ|and|has|alway|taken|a|veri|activ|interest|in|the|work
of|that|organ|he|was|one|of|the|two|gentlemen|whose|labor|made
possibl|the|erect|of|their|build|at|a|cost|of|sixteen|thousand|dollar
his|associ|in|this|work|be|caleb|wheeler|it|would|be|almost|tauto
logic|to|say|that|mr|seagrav|is|a|man|of|broad|humanitarian|principl
and|mark|sympathi|for|this|has|been|shadow|forth|in|the|line|of|this
review|with|a|correct|concept|of|the|plan|and|purpos|of|life|he|real
ize|the|import|of|lay|a|firm|foundat|for|characterbuild|and
is|therefor|activ|interest|in|assist|young|men|as|they|start|out
upon|the|journey|of|life|where|temptat|and|trial|will|frequent|meet
them|his|kind|natur|and|genial|manner|win|him|the|confid|and
friendship|of|all|and|salem|countv|number|him|among|her|most|esteem
citizen
coxcressiox|district|of|new|jersey|i8
charl|walton
charl|walton|exmayor|of|oodburi|is|one|of|the|publicspirit|bus
iness|men|of|this|beauti|citi|and|none|are|held|in|higher|honor|or|more
oener|esteem|he|is|a|worthi|repres|of|a|distinguish|en
glish|famili|four|brother|of|the|name|have|come|to|america|prior|to|the
revolutionari|war|they|settl|near|the|delawar|river|not|far|from
philadelphia|pennsylvania|georg|walton|of|this|famili|was|one|of|the
signer|of|the|declar|of|lidepend
hiram|walton|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was|born|in|philadelphia
learn|the|mill|busi|in|earli|life|and|follow|that|vocat|thenc
forth|he|was|the|father|of|six|children|name|mordecai|mari|william
abigail|joseph|and|rebecca|the|latter|the|onli|survivor|of|the|famili
wasborn|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|and|is|a|resid|of|the|quaker|citi|her|home|be|at
xo|four hundred and fifty-nine|north|fifth|street
william|walton|father|of|charl|walton|was|born|in|philadelphia|in
one|eight hundred|and|pass|his|earli|manhood|there|come|to|new|jersey|about
one thousand, eight hundred and forty|he|settl|in|deptford|township|gloucest|counti|and|eventu
purchas|a|farm|he|had|been|a|miller|in|his|nativ|citi|but|dure|his
last|year|he|gave|his|attent|sole|to|agricultur|he|was|in|the|unit
state|armi|when|a|young|man|but|of|this|period|of|his|life|he|prefer
not|to|speak|as|he|was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|of|cours
oppos|in|principl|to|war|and|aught|but|peac|his|long|and|nobl|life
came|to|a|happi|close|septemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|but|his|memori|is|tender|cher
ish|in|the|heart|of|score|of|his|old|friend|and|associ|his|wife
whose|maiden|name|was|maria|mckean|surviv|him|a|number|of|year|her
death|take|place|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|to|this|worthi|coupl|twelv|chil
dren|were|born|name|wilham|deceas|hiram|of|philadelphia|anna
the|wife|of|zaccheus|patterson|of|westvill|gloucest|counti|new|jersey
charl|henri|who|die|in|infanc|edward|of|chicago|joseph|deceas
georg|of|chicago|mordecai|deceas|morri|of|atlant|citi|new
jersey|and|john|g|and|alfr|c|twin|both|resid|of|the|quaker|citi
charl|walton|whose|birth|occur|in|deptford|township|gloucestej
counti|februari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|was|educ|in|the|common|school|of|wood
buri|and|at|pennington|seminari|in|mercer|counti|new|jersey|after
complet|his|studi|he|was|employ|in|various|capac|for|seventeen
year|by|daniel|thackara|in|philadelphia|woodburi|and|point|in|the
south|in|i88d|he|embark|in|busi|on|his|own|account|and|for|near
i88|biograph|histori|of|the|first
a|score|of|year|has|ijeen|number|among|tlie|leader|in|ood1iuri|s|com
mercial|circl
the|high|esteem|in|which|mr|walton|is|held|among|our|citizen|may|be
judg|in|part|by|the|fact|that|he|has|frecjuent|been|call|upon|to|rep
resent|them|in|the|council|he|sere|as|a|member|of|that|honor|bodi
for|two|term|and|for|a|like|period|held|the|import|offic|of|mayor|of
woodburi|he|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|freehold|at|present|and|sinc
the|organ|of|tke|health|board|he|has|been|one|of|it|most|effici
worker|for|six|year|he|ofifici|as|the|assist|chief|of|the|woodburi
volunt|fire|depart|and|he|is|yet|a|member|of|the|friendship|com
pani|polit|he|is|a|stanch|republican|and|religi|both|he|and|his
estim|wife|are|consist|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church
the|marriag|of|mr|walton|and|anna|k|warren|took|place|in|wood
buri|august|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|four|children|bless|their|happi|home|name
mari|r|born|june|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|nelli|who|was|born|juli|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|die
in|infanc|gladi|born|januari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|and|charl|wayn|august|twenty-nine
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|mrs|walton|is|a|daughter|of|reuben|and|mari|k|kirkbrid|war
ren|of|gloucest|counti|and|was|rear|to|womanhood|in|this|section|of
the|state
julius|way|m|d
the|emin|abil|of|dr|julius|way|has|given|him|a|stand|in|the
medic|profess|that|will|entitl|him|to|mention|among|the|lead|practi
tioner|of|cape|may|court|hous|where|he|has|gain|a|larg|and|lucrat
patronag|that|mani|an|older|practition|might|well|envi|his|success|rest
upon|a|thorough|and|accur|knowledg|of|the|principl|of|the|medic
scienc|of|close|applic|to|the|duti|of|his|profess|and|upon|a|nativ
abil|that|has|enabl|him|to|master|the|difficult|problem|which|are|con
tinual|aris|in|connect|with|the|profess|upon|which|depend|everi
other|call|and|labor|in|life|for|health|is|an|indispens|element|in|even
task|that|fall|to|the|lot|of|man|and|is|the|foundat|for|all|enjoy|and
all|progress
a|nati|of|the|empir|state|dr|ay|was|born|in|kirkwood|broom
counti|septemb|seven|i860|his|parent|be|palmer|m|and|amelia|wil
son|way|the|way|famili|is|of|scotch|origin|and|on|the|matern|side|the
doctor|is|of|irish|descent|martin|ay|the|greatgrandfath|marri|a
sister|of|lord|stirl|and|emigr|from|scotland|to|america|where|his
descend|have|becom|veri|numer|his|son|philemon|a|was|liorn
in|new|york|and|spent|his|entir|life|in|that|state|he|loyal|serv|hi
pr|f
cogressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|one hundred and eighty-nine
countri|in|the|war|of|the|revolut|and|gave|his|polit|support|first|to
the|whig|parti|and|aftenvard|to|the|republican|parti|among|his|children
was|palmer|m|way|who|was|born|in|avon|monro|counti|new|york
novemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|and|there|acquir|his|preliminari|educ|in|the|com
mon|school|he|was|afterward|a|student|in|hartwick|seminari|in|cooper
town|new|york|and|acquir|an|excel|knowledg|of|some|of|the|ancient
languag|thus|peculiar|well|qualifi|for|teach|he|devot|his|ener
gie|to|that|profess|for|a|time|miil|in|the|seminari|he|form|the
acquaint|of|j|fenimor|cooper|the|note|american|novelist|and|a
friendship|sprang|up|between|them|which|endur|until|the|death|of|mr
cooper|after|two|year|spent|as|a|teacher|in|albani|counti|new|york
dr|way|continu|his|studi|preparatori|to|enter|albani|cademi|in
which|institut|he|was|later|graduat|he|was|afterward|graduat|in
the|albani|medic|colleg|and|then|enter|the|methodist|ministri|offi
ciat|for|a|time|as|the|pastor|of|the|esleyan|methodist|episcop|church
in|albani
in|one|eighty-five|one|dr|way|remov|with|his|famili|to|jamaica|west|indi
whither|he|went|as|a|medic|missionari|for|the|congreg|church|with
which|he|becam|connect|a|short|time|lefor|leav|for|the|new|field
for|four|year|he|remain|in|jamaica|and|then|return|to|his|nativ|land
open|a|drug|store|in|new|york|citi|and|also|engag|in|tlie|practic|of
medicin|there|for|twelv|year|he|remain|in|the|empir|state|and
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|came|to|cape|may|counti|new|jersey|where|he|resid|until|his
death|here|he|engag|in|the|practic|of|medicin|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|when|he
turn|over|his|busi|to|his|two|son|dr|eugen|a|promin|physician
and|lead|citizen|of|cape|may|counti|and|julius|of|this|review|in|earli
life|dr|palmer|way|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|whig|parti|and|on|it
dissolut|join|the|rank|of|the|republican|parti|with|which|he|afifili
until|the|rise|of|the|greenback|movement|he|was|identifi|with|that|or
ganize|dure|it|brief|exist|and|then|return|to|the|repuljlican
forc|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of|it|men|and|measur
throughout|the|remaind|of|his|life|at|the|time|of|his|death|he|enjoy
the|distinct|of|be|the|oldest|freemason|in|the|state|of|new|jersey
have|join|that|order|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|when|he|was|made|a|master|mason|in|iiid
dlefield|monro|counti|new|york|at|the|age|of|twentyon|year|at
the|time|of|his|demis|he|was|a|member|in|good|stand|of|canon|lodg
no|one hundred and four|f|a|m|in|south|seavill|new|jersey|with|which|he|had|been
connect|for|twentyseven|year|the|doctor|was|a|man|of|fine|physiqu
larg|and|well|proport|and|had|a|rug|constitut|he|pass
the|eightythird|mileston|on|life|s|journ|yet|he|had|the|appear|of
one hundred and ninety
biograph|histori|of|the|first
he|much|younger|and|possess|the|vigoi|of|a|man|scarc|past|his|prime
his|was|in|mani|respect|a|remark|career|he|trael|all|over|the
american|contin|and|was|a|wit|of|the|remark|growth|and|prog
ress|made|by|the|unit|state|in|the|nineteenth|centuri
dr|palmer|way|marri|amelia|wilson|and|to|them|were|born|eight
children|jame|p|the|eldest|marri|virginia|rice|by|whom|he|had|two
children|maud|and|edna|and|after|her|death|he|marri|lizzi|thomp
son|he|engag|in|merchandis|at|sea|isl|citi|and|was|the|treasur
of|that|place|but|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|mari|becam|the|wife|of|eugen|c|cole|a
well|known|lawyer|charl|marri|jenni|c|swan|and|they|have|two
children|mabel|and|edna|he|is|a|merchant|of|south|seavill|new|jer
sey|and|has|serv|as|the|postmast|there|eugen|wed|mari|adam
and|their|children|are|clarenc|jess|and|eanni|he|is|now|a|promin
practic|physician|of|dennisvill|cape|may|counti|is|a|member|of|the
pension|board|and|a|truste|of|the|south|jersey|institut|julius|is|the|next
of|the|famili|georg|die|at|the|age|of|twentytwo|year|albert|marri
lizzi|van|gilder|and|their|children|were|liness|emil|and|benton|their
father|has|twice|held|the|offic|of|postmast|of|ocean|view|and|is|now|en
gage|in|merchandis|there|minni|the|youngest|child|is|a|well|known
educ|for|a|while|be|a|teacher|in|the|ocean|view|public|school
we|now|take|up|the|person|histori|of|dr|julius|way|know|that|it
will|prove|of|interest|to|mani|of|our|reader|for|he|is|both|wide|and|favor
abli|known|in|cape|may|and|adjoin|counti|he|attend|the|public
school|of|seavill|and|subsequ|was|a|student|in|the|philadelphia|col
lege|of|pharmaci|in|which|institut|he|was|graduat|with|the|class|of
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|then|matricul|in|the|jefiferson|medic|colleg|and|was|gradu
ate|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|after|which|he|practic|for|two|year|in|south
seavill|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|came|to|cape|may|court|hous|where|he|has|sinc
remain|few|men|are|better|cjualifi|for|the|practic|of|medicin|than
dr|way|he|has|taken|a|special|cours|in|chemistri|which|togeth|with
his|studi|in|the|medic|and|pharmaci|school|has|given|him|a|broad|and
comprehens|knowledg|of|drug|and|their|use|he|is|also|conduct|a
drug|store|and|in|both|branch|of|his|busi|is|meet|with|excel
success|he|is|a|member|of|the|cape|may|counti|medic|societi|and|ha
gain|a|posit|of|distinct|in|the|rank|of|the|medic|fratern|he
is|also|the|physician|for|the|board|of|health|and|the|counti|physician|for|tlie
almshous|and|jail
in|connect|with|his|profess|he|has|other|interest|be|interest
in|the|new|jersey|state|mutual|associ|and|the|mechan|labor
build|loan|associ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|was|elect|a|commission|of
coxgressiox|district|of|nejv|jersey|one hundred and ninety-one
cape|may|counti|social|he|is|connect|with|various|civic|organ
he|belong|to|hereford|lodg|i|o|o|f|pomenah|tribe|o|r|m|and
the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|meth
odist|episcop|church|the|doctor|was|elect|by|the|republican|parti
the|counti|clerk|of|cape|may|counti|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|take|the|offic
februari|twenty-seven|one thousand, nine hundred|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|elect|the|coronerof|the|counti|on|the
same|ticket|and|serv|one|term
in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|dr|way|and|iiss|ella
corson|a|daughter|of|german|corson|and|they|now|have|two|children
palmer|m|and|helena|the|doctor|and|his|wife|occupi|a|veri|promin
posit|in|social|circl|and|enjoy|the|hospit|of|mani|of|the|best|home
in|cape|may|court|hous|he|is|a|man|of|broad|humanitarian|principl
and|deep|sympathi|and|on|mani|untold|occas|he|has|profession
visit|those|from|whom|he|could|hope|to|receiv|no|remuner|his
honor|and|upright|life|commend|him|to|the|confid|and|regard|of|all
and|no|man|is|more|high|esteem|in|his|adopt|counti|than|dr|juhus
way
samuel|h|smith
captain|s|h|smith|a|son|of|john|and|salli|hendrickson|smith
was|born|near|milford|in|kent|counti|delawar|as|were|his|father|and
grandfath|the|parent|of|the|latter|be|among|the|earliest|settler|in
sussex|counti|delawar|john|smith|was|a|farmer|of|some|pretens|in
that|state|not|content|to|follow|the|beaten|track|of|common|usag|in|his
chosen|field|of|work|and|in|consequ|was|a|benefactor|to|the|farm
communiti|in|that|he|introduc|mani|new|idea|that|prove|of|great|valu
he|was|a|whig|and|later|a|republican|as|those|parti|came|nearer|to|meet
ing|his|idea|of|right|he|was|a|member|of|the|great|methodist|church|and
live|a|truli|christian|life|his|union|with|miss|salli|hendrickson|was
honor|by|the|birth|of|six|children|mari|thompson|jame|elizabeth
edward|charl|and|our|subject|he|die|in|his|eightythird|year|in|febru
ari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|his|wife|at|the|age|of|fortyf|year
captain|s|h|smith|was|educ|in|a|school|kept|up|by|the|baptist
denomin|in|delawar|and|then|engag|in|farm|on|his|father|s|farm
in|kent|counti|after|devot|a|few|year|to|this|industri|he|turn|his
attent|to|boat|and|was|the|captain|of|a|number|of|vessel|pli|be
tween|delawar|port|and|new|york|this|life|suit|him|and|he|continu
it|for|twenti|year|at|the|same|time|be|engag|in|fish|to|some|extent
and|also|carri|on|his|farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|came|to|this|citi|and|embark|in
one hundred and ninety-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|grocer|busi|which|he|has|conckict|ever|sinc|at|the|corner|of
second|and|griffith|street
captain|smith|was|marri|januari|one|one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|and|has|had|three|children
john|who|combin|farm|and|fish|and|was|marri|to|miss|miner
thoma|who|marri|miss|anna|kemper|and|is|also|a|farmer|and|fisherman
who|handl|a|great|ijiani|oyster|and|anna|who|marri|thoma|draper
a|farmer|who|oper|a|steam|thresher|captain|smith|is|a|man|who|is|re
spect|and|esteem|by|all|and|freeli|aid|in|upbuild|the|citi|s|enter
prise
john|wesley|grace
john|esley|grace|was|born|in|goshen|cape|may|counti|new|jersey
octob|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|3id|is|a|son|of|philip|h|and|hannah|hand|grace|the
father|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and|own|and|oper|a|small|tract|of
land|near|goshen|he|gave|his|pohtic|support|first|to|the|whig|parti
and|later|to|the|republican|parti|he|was|twice|marri|the|son|of|the
first|union|was|jess|s|who|marri|mari|carson|by|whom|he|had|five
children|name|frank|lydia|janet|lebus|and|seatia|by|his|second
wife|the|mother|of|our|subject|mr|grace|had|five|children|philip|a|sea
captain|marri|sophia|swain|and|their|children|are|orlando|malachi
allen|and|coleman|henri|marri|sarah|ann|mickel|and|their|children
are|laura|v|harri|carlton|eudora|and|calla|deborah|h|becam|the
wife|of|john|c|high|and|their|children|are|andrew|howard|ida|henri
reev|emma|is|the|wife|of|jame|cress|by|whom|she|has|two|children
lewi|and|alva|john|w|is|the|youngest|of|the|famili
in|the|town|of|his|nativ|john|w|grace|spent|his|earli|boyhood|day
and|when|a|youth|of|fourteen|year|went|to|sea|for|eighteen|year|he|was
connect|with|the|coast|trade|and|serv|as|captain|of|various|vessel
engag|in|carri|coal|between|philadelphia|and|boston|on|abandon
ing|the|sea|he|becam|connect|with|the|mercantil|interest|in|goshen
conduct|a|store|for|twentytwo|year|he|also|dealt|in|coal|grain|and
lumber|he|is|now|a|wholesal|grain|dealer|and|shipper|and|own|and|sail
a|vessel|between|goshen|land|and|delawar|point|handl|twentyf
thousand|bushel|of|grain|annual|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|occur|the|marriag|of|mr
grace|and|miss|rebecca|morri|daughter|of|joseph|morri|a|sea|captain
of|seavitl|new|jersey|five|children|have|been|born|to|them|namelv
bessi|john|w|jr|who|is|a|graduat|of|the|lehigh|univers|and|a|civil
engin|by|profess|now|in|the|employ|of|the|unit|gas|improv
ment|compani|of|philadelphia|eugen|g|who|is|also|a|graduat|of|tlie
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|one hundred and ninety-three
lehieh|univers|n|the|civil|engin|depart|and|is|now|in|the
emnlov|of|the|bethlehem|iron|work|of|philadelphia|leroy|t|and|herma
in|his|polit|affili|mr|grace|is|a|republican|but|has|never|been
an|aspir|for|offic|prefer|to|give|his|time|and|attent|to|busmess
affair|he|belong|to|the|mason|fratern|and|is|a|member|of|the|meth
odist|episcop|church|in|which|he|has|serv|as|steward|he|deserv
great|credit|for|his|success|in|life|and|may|truli|be|term|a|selfmad|man
or|sinc|the|age|of|fourteen|year|he|has|depend|entir|upon|his|own
effort|and|is|todav|number|among|the|men|of|influenc|m|h|s|com
mnnitv
augustus|s|barber|jr
this|gentleman|the|editor|of|the|constitut|at|woodburi|new|jer
sev|and|treasur|of|gloucest|counti|is|a|son|of|augustus|s|and|mari
spark|barber|and|was|born|in|this|citi|novemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|ihe|tathei
was|of|germanenglish|descent|and|was|born|in|franklin|counti|pennsyl
vania|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|and|there|receiv|the|educ|advantag|usual
accord|the|vonth|of|that|day|he|engag|in|busi|at|an|earli|age
follow|mercantil|pursuit|but|subsequ|move|to|chambersburg
pennsylvania|where|he|had|a|posit|in|the|postoffic|for|f
vear|under|colonel|findlav|and|then|went|to|the|citi|of|philadelphia
where|he|enter|the|johnson|type|foundri|and|learn|the|trade|of|a
printer|chang|his|whole|futur|career|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|he|came|to|this|citi
and|establish|the|constitut|one|of|the|success|newspap|of|he
state|and|for|manv|vear|an|organ|of|the|whig|but|later|devot|to|the
interest|of|the|republican|parti|it|was|the|first|paper|in|the|state|south|of
trenton|to|introduc|steampow|printingpress|and|t|still|retain|the
name|of|be|conduct|on|the|most|modern|method|it|is|high|prize
as|well|for|the|high|standard|maintain|as|it|pure|moral|influenc|and|is
reet|with|pleasur|one|v|hundr|of|famili
uoustus|s|barber|sr|was|twice|marri|his|first|wife|mari|spark
be|tlie|mother|of|five|children|anni|s|the|wife|of|john|l|wentz|a
resid|of|salem|countv|this|state|mari|t|who|wed|aaron|m|wil
kin|of|this|citv|robert|w|who|marri|margaret|a|clark|and|who|re
side|in|los|angel|california|john|who|die|unmarri|and|augustus
s|jr|ir|barber|was|a|victim|of|cholera|dure|the|epidem|of|that
dread|plagu|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|and|mr|barber|chose|susan|r|campbel|for|his
second|wife|thev|had|two|children|susan|who|die|m|childhood|and
helen|who|die|just|as|she|was|inid|into|womanhood|mr|barber|die
one hundred and ninety-four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
march|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|in|the|ripe|of|age|and|the|conscions|of|a|well|spent
life|deepli|regret|by|host|of|friend
augustus|s|barber|jr|receiv|his|educ|in|the|privat|school|of
woodburi|and|then|enter|the|printingoffic|of|his|father|which|afford
him|a|thorough|cours|of|train|and|enabl|him|to|acquir|a|knowledg
of|the|busi|he|was|untir|in|his|eftort|to|keep|the|paper|up|to|the
high|standard|set|for|it|and|was|use|to|his|father|who|retir|from|the
busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|leav|the|entir|manag|to|him|it|is|a|clean|newsi
sheet|neat|gotten|up|and|abli|edit|unwav|in|it|advocaci|of|the
right|and|fearless|in|denounc|wtong
the|marriag|of|mr|barber|to|miss|hannah|maria|chattin|a|daughter
of|illiam|p|and|arabella|s|chattin|was|celebr|at|salem|new|jer
sey|the|home|of|the|bride|on|octoli|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|they|have|had|two
children|william|who|die|in|childhood|and|john|born|april|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight
he|is|a|member|of|the|presbyterian|church|and|in|polit|a|stanch|republ
can|he|is|a|past|master|of|florenc|lodg|no|eighty-seven|f|a|m|and|a|past
nobl|grand|of|woodburi|lodg|no|fifty-four|l|o|o|f|he|was|elect|to|the
offic|of|counti|treasur|by|the|freehold|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|was|reelect|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|is|the|secretari|of|the|state|execut|committe|to|which|offic
he|succeed|john|y|foster|under|franklin|murphi|chairman|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight
he|has|fill|the|offic|of|journal|clerk|of|the|state|senat|and|is|the|present
secretari|of|the|senat
charl|heritag
charl|heritag|one|of|the|lead|farmer|of|east|greenwich|town
ship|gloucest|counti|was|born|on|the|21st|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|in|the
township|where|he|still|resid|and|is|a|son|of|jonathan|and|hannah|atkin
son|heritag|his|patern|grandpar|were|benjamin|and|hannah|white
heritag|nativ|of|new|jersey|and|of|english|ancestri|jonathan|heritag
was|born|in|woolwich|township|march|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|took|up|his|res
idenc|upon|the|farm|now|occupi|by|his|grandson|walter|in|east|green
wich|township|there|he|made|his|home|until|his|death|which|occur
novemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|his|wife|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-nine|was|call|to|her|final
rest|on|the|15th|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|their|children|were|charl|benja
min|john|and|georg|who|resid|in|mickleton|and|elizabeth|who|make
her|home|with|her|brother|benjamin
charl|heritag|whose|name|introduc|this|review|was|educ|in
the|friend|school|at|mickleton|and|assist|his|father|in|the|work|of|the
home|farm|until|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|when|he|purchas|his|present|farm|of|one|hundr
ajr|ean
congressiox|district|of|nejv|jersey|one hundred and ninety-five
and|twentythre|acr|and|was|activ|connect|with|the|cultiv|of
that|properti|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|sinc|which|time|it|has|hem|under|the|manag
of|his|soninlaw|howard|j|rulon
on|the|6th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|nlr|heritag|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
martha|r|borton|a|daughter|of|aaron|borton|who|resid|in|salem
counti|for|mani|year|and|die|near|mullica|hill|gloucest|counti|in
august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|eight|children|were|horn|to|mr|and|mrs|heritag|as|fol
low|walter|and|a11|ert|who|are|well|known|resid|of|gloucest|counti
clara|b|who|die|at|the|age|of|twentyon|year|john|c|who|carri|on
farm|near|mickleton|richard|b|a|sheep|farmer|of|wyom|who|mar
rie|martha|boston|of|illinoi|and|has|a|son|alter|raymond|esther|l
who|is|the|wife|of|howard|j|rulon|and|has|a|daughter|mari|h|mari
who|die|at|the|age|of|three|year|and|howard|j|who|die|at|the|age|of
four|year
mr|heritag|and|his|famili|hold|membership|in|the|societi|of|friend
and|are|peopl|of|high|respect|enjoy|the|warm|regard|of|all|with
whom|they|have|have|been|brought|in|contact|mr|heritag|is|a|charter
member|of|the|mickleton|grang|and|serv|as|it|treasur|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|until
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|in|polit|he|is|a|stalwart|republican|ever|earnest|in|the|advocaci|of
the|principl|of|the|parti|yet|has|never|been|an|aspir|for|the|honor|and
emolu|of|offic|his|time|and|attent|have|been|given|to|his|imsi
ness|aftair|and|his|capabl|and|unflag|industri|ijrought|to|him
credit|success|he|is|now|live|retir|enjoy|the|fruit|of|his|former
toil|he|take|a|deep|and|abid|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the
welfar|of|gloucest|counti|and|is|just|accord|a|place|among|her|repr
sentat|men
bradway|famili
edward|bradway|live|in|the|parish|of|st|paul|shadwel|in|london
transport|himself|with|his|wife|mari|and|two|children|mari|and|susanna
bradway|and|their|three|servant|that|is|to|say|william|groom|franci
buckel|and|john|alim|in|the|third|month|in|the|year|accord|to|the
english|account|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-seven|into|america|on|board|ship|kent|gregori|marlo
master|who|all|arriv|in|the|provinc|of|west|new|jersey|the|seventh
month|follow|and|so|to|the|place|new|salem|where|they|did|inhabit|and
had|the|follow|children|mari|susanna|william|not|mention|as
come|with|the|famili|sarah|born|the|27th|of|the|seventh|month|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-seven
and|hannah|born|the|14th|of|the|seventh|month|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|as|the|kent|was
lea|the|thame|king|charl|the|two|i|on|his|pleasur|barg|came|along
iq6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
side|and|ask|whither|tliey|were|go|and|on|le|told|they|were
quaker|go|to|america|he|gave|them|his|bless
befor|come|to|this|countri|edward|bradway|purchas|one|thousand
acr|of|land|and|a|town|lot|of|fenwick|said|lot|contain|sixteen|acr
commenc|near|the|public|wharf|at|the|creek|and|run|up|the|street
a|certain|distanc|and|from|the|line|of|said|street|a|norther|cours|to|fen
wick|creek|see|deed|bear|date|of|june|six|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|salem|survey|book
five|page|three hundred and eleven|trenton|n|j|in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one|edward|bradway|built|on
his|town|lot|a|larg|brick|hous|which|is|still|stand|for|size|and|appear
anc|surjiass|ani|hous|built|prior|to|that|date|and|for|mani|year|after
ward|in|salem|the|governor|of|this|state|resid|in|this|hous|some|time
after|the|death|of|edward|bradway|henc|it|went|under|the|name|of|the
governor|s|hous|for|mani|year|afterward|it|was|also|call|the|light
hous|becaus|in|earlier|time|lantern|were|display|from|a|pole|on|the
roof|to|guid|navig|in|the|creek|edward|and|mari|bradway|deed
their|hous|and|town|lot|of|sixteen|acr|to|their|daughter|mari|cooper
a|widow|the|deed|bear|date|of|januari|sixteen|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-three|salem|survey|look
five|page|two hundred and eighty-eight|trenton|n|j
in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-three|the|town|of|salem|was|incorpor|into|a|borough|and|the
author|of|the|town|chang|the|name|of|wharf|street|to|bradway|street
in|honor|of|edward|bradway|he|was|a|promin|member|of|the|friend
meet|in|earli|time|and|appear|in|public|aiifair|be|chosen|a|member
of|the|assembl|of|salem|tenth|in|septemb|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five|sign|concess|and
agreement|in|march|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-six|was|a|member|of|assembl|salem|in|march
one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|justic|of|salem|tenth|in|may|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-four|commiss|to|call|to|account
salem|peopl|who|had|receiv|public|good|in|may|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-four|justic|of|salem
tenth|in|may|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five|and|member|of|the|assembl|septemb|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five
edward|bradway|s|will|bear|date|decemb|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-three|say|to|my
wife|mari|all|that|tract|of|land|i|now|live|on|with|hous|orchaixl|and|all
thereunto|belong|with|the|one|hundr|acr|of|marsh|lie|near|the
mouth|of|monmouth|river|in|all|contain|eight|hundr|acr|for|and
dure|her|natur|life|and|after|her|deceas|unto|my|daughter|susanna
and|sarah|to|be|ecjual|divid|and|to|m|wife|lari|and|daughter
susanna|and|sarah|each|onethird|of|my|person|estat|and|unto|my|son
william|the|tract|of|land|he|now|live|on|contain|five|hundr|acr|to
my|daughter|hannah|four|hundr|and|fiftynin|acr|of|land|call|stow
neck|i|give|and|bequeath|to|my|grandson|john|cooper|son|of|william
cooper|of|salem|town|deceas|three|hundr|acr|of|land|mention
by|deed
william|son|of|edward|and|marv|bradwav|marri|elizabeth|wood
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|one hundred and ninety-seven
seventh|month|twenty-six|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|from|newton|a|widow|with|children|in|his|will
he|mention|his|last|wife|patienc|sarah|bradway|danghter|of|w|dham|and
elizabeth|wood|his|wife|was|born|ye|29th|of|ye|first|mo|one thousand, six hundred and ninety|edward
born|bth|of|ve|8th|mo|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-two|william|bradway|was|born|the|21st|day|of
the|ii|mo|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-five|jonathan|born|22d|of|ye|first|mo|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|elizabeth
born|i6th|of|ve|first|mo|one thousand, seven hundred|the|birth|of|john|and|mari|was|not
criven|sarah|daughter|of|william|and|elizabeth|w|bradway|marn|a
man|bv|the|name|of|wright|first|name|not|given|in|her|father|s|will|jheir
firct|son|was|edward|the|marriag|and|name|of|his|wife|not|found|w|illiam
die|singl|elizabeth|bradwav|marri|edward|keasbi|ist|mo|29th
one hundred and seventy-five|he|was|the|son|of|edward|keasbi|the|emigr|and|wife|elizabeth
dauhter|of|ndrew|and|isabella|thompson|jonathan|s|first|wife|s|name
uncertain|said|to|have|been|a|daughter|of|jame|daniel|sr|and|his|wife
isabel|colyer|his|second|wife|was|susanna|oakford|marn|20th|ist
one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|edward|bradwav|son|of|jonathan|bradway|and|susanna|his|wife
was|born|31st|day|of|3d|mo|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|sarah|bradway|daughter|of|jonathan
and|susanna|was|born|28th|7th|mo|i743|nathan|bradway|born|15th|of
nd|mo|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-six|jonathan|bradwav|depart|this|life|3cl|mo|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-five|age|sixti
six|year|his|first|wife|s|children|were|william|rachel|hannah|and|jona
than|jr|susanna|bradway|depart|this|lite|28th|of|12th|mo|seventeen|seven
john|bradwav|of|alloway|s|creek|precinct|salem|counti|w|est|new
jersey|cordwain|youngest|son|of|william|and|patienc|bradway
mention|in|his|will|bear|date|june|three|i739|his|wife|lari|son|john|and
daughter|hannah|both|minor|executor|wife|and|son|john|probat
august|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-nine|liber|four|folio|two hundred and three
susanna|bradway|daughter|of|the|emigr|was|engag|to|he|marri
to|john|remington|but|die|befor|the|marriag|took|place|he|was|one|of
the|wit|to|her|mother|s|will|william|hall|marri|first|elizabeth
pyle|iay|twenty-one|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-four|who|die|leav|three|daughter|sarah|elizabeth
and|hannah|it|has|been|claim|by|his|descend|that|his|second|wife|was
sarah|clement|but|they|can|not|prove|it|plis|second|wife|was|sarah|brad
way|a|daughter|of|edward|anrl|mari|bradway|emigr|they|were|mar
rie|at|salem|new|jersey|4th|mo|twenty-six|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|see|minut|of|friend
meet|also|a|copi|of|the|same|at|the|room|of|the|philadelphia|histor
societi|thirteenth|and|locust|street|his|mother|s|will|bear|date|6th
mo|eight|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-six|say|to|my|daughter|sarah|hall|her|sister|susanna
bradway|die|intest|hugh|middleton|administ|her|estat|the
paper|say|wherea|susanna|bradway|late|of|monmouth|rier|coheir
with|william|bradway|and|hannah|mari|middleton|and|sarah|now|wife|of
william|hall|of|salem|town|carpent|three|suftcient|proof|that|his
one hundred and ninety-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
second|wife|was|sarah|bradway|the|had|three|children|born|to|them
wilham|jr|clement|and|nathaniel|hall|william|hall|the|emigr|die
in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirteen|see|his|will|at|trenton|x|j|his|widow|sarah|b|hall|die|in
one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-six|hannah|bradway|daughter|of|edward|and|mari|marri|joseph
stretch|from|whom|the|stretch|famih|of|salem|counti|rlescend|and|had
three|son|bradway|joseph|and|peter|stretch
william|cooper|of|pyne|poynt|and|mari|bradway|daughter|of|edward
bradway|of|auoway|s|creek|were|marri|in|salem|meet|9th|mo|8th
one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|william|cooper|jr|live|l|ut|a|few|year|after|his|marriag|die|3d
mo|one|sixty-nine|one|in|the|thirtyfirst|year|of|his|age|leav|his|wife|mari|and|three
children|john|hannah|and|mari|to|surviv|him|for|so|young|a|man
he|had|acquir|consider|properti|consecju|leav|besid|per
sonal|properti|inxentori|at|two hundred and thirty-six|19s|his|dwellinghous|and|sixteen|acr
of|land|in|the|town|of|salem|and|eight|hundr|acr|of|land|on|auoway|s
creek|three|hundr|acr|of|the|latter|were|given|to|him|by|his|fatherin
law|edward|bradway|and|these|he|devis|to|his|son|john|the|remain
five|hundr|acr|on|auoway|s|creek|he|purchas|and|devis|them|to|his
two|daughter|hannah|and|mari|his|dwellinghous|and|sixteen|acr
of|ground|he|devis|to|his|wife|for|life|and|after|her|deceas|to|my|unborn
son|or|daughter|all|unto|him|or|her|heir|forex|there|is|littl|doubt|that
william|cooper|jr|die|at|his|father|s|hous|at|cooper|s|point|his|will|be
wit|bv|sanniel|spicer|and|henrv|wood|who|live|near|there
the|children|of|william|coo|ier|jr|and|mari|his|wife|were|john|born
9th|mo|22d|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|hannah|born|6th|mo|jth|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|marri|john|mickl
9th|mo|8th|one thousand, seven hundred and four|and|die|ist|mo|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-seven|alari|liorn|12th|mo|27th|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight
marri|benjamin|thackara|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seven|and|sarah|born|7th|mo|15th|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one
john|cooper|was|not|quit|eight|year|old|when|his|father|die|and|soon|be
came|a|member|of|his|grandfath|s|famili|for|on|4th|mo|5th|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-five|when
in|his|twelfth|year|this|indentur|of|apprenticeship|of|that|date|was|made
itnesseth|that|ye|said|john|cooper|by|and|with|the|consent|of|his
mother|and|also|of|his|own|voluntari|mind|and|will|hath|put|himself|sarvant
and|after|the|manner|of|an|apprentic|unto|ye|sd|william|cooper|his|said
grandfath|to|and|with|him|to|dwell|from|ye|da|of|ye|date|hereof|until|he
shall|attain|to|ye|age|of|ninteen|year|dure|which|said|tearm|ye|said
john|cooper|his|said|grandfath|viz|mlliam|cooper|well|and|truli|shall
serv|his|honest|and|law|command|observ|and|obey|everywher
nor|from|the|sarvic|or|implo|ment|of|his|sd|grandfath|in|an|wise|unlaw
fulli|absent|himself|by|day|nor|yett|by|night|but|as|a|true|and|faith|appren
tice|and|sarant|ought|at|all|time|to|demain|and|behav|himself|toward|ye
sd|illian1|c|ioper|his|sd|grandfath|and|margaret|cooper|his|grand
congression|district|of|new|jersey|one hundred and ninety-nine
mother|dure|the|said|tearm|and|the|said|illiam|cooper|is|to|find|unto
ye|said|john|cooper|his|grandchild|suffici|and|conveni|meat|drink
lodg|wash|and|apparil|dure|ye|sd|tearm
he|so|won|the|confid|of|his|grandfath|mlliam|that|he|made|liim
though|but|twentyseven|year|old|one|of|his|executor
on|1st|mo|5th|one hundred and seventy-one thousand, two hundred and thirteen|john|cooper|marri|ann|clark|oldest|daugh
ter|of|benjamin|and|anni|clark
william|and|margaret|cooper|were|english|friend|he|was|born|in|the
year|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-two|but|neither|the|date|of|her|birth|nor|the|marriag|is|known|they
live|at|coleshil|a|hamlet|in|hertfordshir|about|twentynin|mile|north
west|of|london|and|not|quit|three|mile|from|jordan|s|the|burial|place|of
penn|it|has|a|popul|of|about|six|hundr|and|from|it|elev|posi
tion|command|a|view|of|six|counti|while|the|beauti|wood|hill|in|it
vicin|are|celebr|there|they|becam|convinc|of|the|truth|preach
by|georg|fox|and|thenc|emigr|to|america|in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-nine|bring
with|them|their|five|children|william|hannah|joseph|jame|and|daniel
they|attend|in|england|the|friend|meet|held|at|thoma|elwood|s
hous|one|mile|from|coleshil|and|at|isaac|pennington|s|not|three|mile|dis
tant|and|were|member|of|uppersid|meet|of|friend|from|which|they
receiv|the|follow|certif
wherea|illiam|cooper|of|coleshil|in|ye|rsh|of|amersham|and
ye|counti|of|hertford|hath|signifi|unto|us|that|he|hath|an|intent|if|ye
lord|permit|to|transport|himself|with|his|wife|and|children|unto|ye|planta
tion|of|west|new|jersey|and|hath|desir|a|testimoni|from|this|meet
for|ye|satisfact|of|friend|there|or|elsewher|unto|whom|he|may|be|out
ward|unknown
william|cooper|locat|a|survey|of|eighti|acr|within|the|town|bound
of|burlington|the|return|of|the|survey|be|date|octob|i|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|in
the|spring|of|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|they|determin|to|move|further|down|the|river|and
select|the|highland|at|the|mouth|of|asoroch|river|the|indian|name|for
cooper|s|creek|where|a|dens|pine|forest|then|grew|from|which|william
cooper|name|the|place|pyne|poynt|here|william|cooper|locat|three
hundr|acr|of|land|compris|the|greater|part|of|the|present|first|and
second|ward|of|the|citi|of|camden|consider|part|of|which|still|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|belong|to|his|descend|in|the|direct|line|who|hold|their|titl|by
descent|and|devis|without|a|deed|have|been|made|sinc|the|first|locat
of|the|land|he|built|his|hous|near|the|edg|of|the|bluff|on|a|site|long
sinc|wash|into|the|river|by|the|inroad|of|the|tide|upon|this|tract|a|tribe
of|indian|whose|chief|was|arasapha|had|a|villag|and|kept|up|a|constant
intercours|by|cano|with|the|opposit|indian|villag|of|shackamaxon
two hundred|biograph|histori|of|the|first
recogn|their|right|to|the|soil|wiuiam|cooper|purclias|it|from|them
also|and|receiv|from|them|a|deed|sign|by|talacca|their|resid|chief
and|wit|by|sever|of|their|tribe
william|kenton|and|mari|cooper|were|marri|nth|mo|30th|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-two
he|live|but|a|short|time|after|marriag|in|his|will|bear|date|8th|day|of
decemb|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-three|record|23d|of|april|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|is|the|follow
late|of|the|provinc|of|maryland|now|of|salem|town|i|will|my
estat|viz|land|good|chattel|belong|unto|me|in|the|provinc|of
maryland|to|be|sold|for|the|payment|of|my|debt|i|give|and|bequeath
unto|my|two|son|william|and|john|kenton|all|that|tract|of|land|and|plantat
late|purchas|ol|john|worledg|when|they|attain|the|age|of|one|twenti
year|to|my|wife|mari|kenton|the|rest|and|residu|of|my|estat|both|real
person|i|appoint|my|wife|mari|and|friend|richard|darkin|of|salem
co|and|john|pitt|of|maryland|to|be|my|executor
hugh|middleton|and|mari|kenton|were|marri|octob|twenty-six|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four
he|was|a|resid|of|mannington|his|will|bear|date|januari|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and thirteen
mention|his|son|john|daughter|mari|and|daughterinlaw|sarah|hurley
it|contain|the|follow|provis|to|my|son|i|give|that|plantat|or
farm|whereon|i|now|dwell|call|bariton|field|contain|eight|hundr
acr|of|land|to|my|daughter|mari|middleton|one|hundr|and|fourteen
acr|of|land|lie|on|the|north|side|of|halltown|creek|adjoin|the|land
of|john|pledger|of|whom|the|land|was|former|bought|togeth|with|ye
half|part|of|a|gristmil|now|erect|upon|ye|premis|in|partnership|between
myself|and|john|van|mater|to|my|daughter|mari|i|give|my|silver|tankard
also|one|feather|bed|cloth|curtain|and|other|furnitur|thereonto|belong
ing|be|in|ye|great|room|of|my|dwellinghous
hugh|middleton|s|grandson|john|vine|was|the|chief|justic|of|the
state|of|delawar|and|speaker|of|the|delawar|hous|of|assembl|he|die
in|the|middleton|hous|in|mannington|and|was|born|by|pallbear|on|foot
four|mile|to|salem|and|buri|in|the|aisl|of|st|john|s|episcop|church
his|tombston|and|that|of|his|father|were|taken|up|of|late|year|and|now|are
built|into|the|front|wall|of|the|church|his|person|properti|was|in
ventori|at|five|hundr|and|seventytwo|pound|he|was|elect|the|sheriff
of|salem|counti|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-six|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-seven|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-nine|and|elect|justic|in|one thousand, seven hundred and one|hugh|mid
dleton|s|father|was|from|leicestershir|and|his|mother|from|gloucestershir
england|the|vine|famili|came|from|essex|counti|massachusett|sarah
hurley|daughterinlaw|of|hugh|middleton|marri|joseph|pledger
from|the|emigr|s|grandson|edward|is|descend|aaron|bradway|of
elsinboro|in|his|will|bear|date|novemb|nth|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-four|he|say|to
my|son|joshua|i|give|the|jmantat|i|now|live|on|with|all|the|hous|and
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and one
build|thereunto|belong|but|if|my|son|joshua|should|die|befor|he|has
law|issu|then|my|will|is|that|the|said|plantat|be|divid|between|my
two|son|aaron|and|edward|bradway|by|the|meet|of|friend|to|my
grandchildren|mari|and|taci|goodwin|and|my|daughter|rebecca|good
win|and|my|two|daughter|sarah|and|hannah|sixti|pound|proclam
money|and|to|my|son|thoma|one|hundr|and|fifti|pound|proclam
money|and|to|my|son|edward|aaron|and|thoma|my|hous|and|lot|in
salem|also|woodland|etc|my|wife|sarah|executrix
thoma|bradway|s|mother|was|sarah|smith|the|second|wife|of|aaron
joshua|the|first|son|of|aaron|bradway|mention|in|his|will|bear|date
octob|i6th|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|my|will|is|that|one|thousand|pound|be|put|to|interest
said|interest|to|be|paid|annual|to|my|niec|hannah|goodwin|dure|her
life|and|after|her|death|the|said|one|thousand|pound|to|the|surviv|chil
dren|of|my|halfbroth|edward|bradway|and|to|the|chiltlren|of|my|half
sister|hannah|bradway|now|deceas|and|to|the|children|of|halfsist
sarah|waddington|and|all|said|children|to|have|equal|share|except|my
halfsist|hannah|s|son|joshua|is|to|have|as|much|as|ani|two|of|the|other
second|i|give|grace|bradway|daughter|of|edward|bradway|two|hundr
pound|which|is|in|addit|to|her|share|of|the|thousand|pound|aljov|or
dere|i|devis|to|my|halfbroth|thoma|bradway|my|two|hous|and
lot|in|the|town|of|salem|and|a|wood|lot|in|upper|alloway|s|creek|i|also
give|to|said|thoma|two|thousand|dollar|in|cash|i|give|to|my|housekeep
ehzabeth|black|three|hundr|pound|to|prudenc|the|daughter|of|rich
ard|smith|fifti|pound|to|jame|bartram|twentyf|pound|to|daniel
jone|twentyf|pound|to|my|color|boy|chord|hazard|twentyf
pound|when|he|coni|to|the|age|of|twentyon|with|interest|from|date|to
my|executor|thoma|bradway|and|isaac|moss|all|the|remaind|of|my|es
tate|be|it|more|or|less
joshua|bradway|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|age|fiftynin|year|thoma|bradway
marri|isabel|dunlap|they|had|three|children|sara|a|thoma|d|and
eliza|thoma|bradway|esq|die|august|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|age|fiftysix|year|and
seven|month|isabel|his|wife|die|novemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|age|fiftytwo
year|three|month|and|eighteen|day|sara|ann|marri|john|s|ood
they|have|five|children|adelin|m|john|s|thoma|b|warren|d|and
luci|i|adelin|marri|thoma|sinnickson|and|they|have|two|children
john|w|and|mari|h|john|s|wood|jr|was|born|novemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and
die|june|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|unmarri|thoma|b|marri|first|elizabeth|jone|and
had|two|children|thoma|j|and|elizabeth|thoma|j|marri|jenni
ware|a|daughter|of|charl|ware|near|jericho|salem|counti|they|have
no|children|elizabeth|marri|william|calvert|an|ensrlishman|and|thev
two hundred and two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
have|one|child|elizabeth|seven|year|old|thoma|b|wood|s|second|wife
was|elizabeth|dace|of|beeslej|s|point|warren|d|marri|vashti|black
wood|a|daughter|of|john|and|sarah|blackwood|of|alloway|they|had|five
children|sara|ann|rena|s|john|w|linda|m|and|ralph|sara|ann
marri|alfr|hain|and|they|have|one|child|helen|five|year|old|the
other|four|are|unmarri|luci|l|wood|marri|dr|henri|c|clark|of
woodburi|they|have|two|children|alic|w|clark|and|harri|h|clark
harri|h|marri|franc|bothsford|and|they|have|one|child|helen|seven
year|old|thoma|d|bradway|s|first|wife|was|eliza|blackwood|a|daughter
of|joseph|and|ann|blackwood|she|die|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|age|fortyfour
year|leav|three|children|charl|tlioma|and|isabel|d|charl|mar
rie|hetti|biddl|a|daughter|of|aaron|biddl|of|pennsvill|he|die
young|leav|no|children|thoma|jr|marri|eliza|newel|a|daughter
of|charl|and|artemesia|newel|of|penn|s|neck|and|they|have|six|chil
dren|harri|charl|loui|a|arthur|isabel|and|eliza|harri|marri
and|die|young|leav|two|children|charl|marri|eva|richardson|and
had|two|children|live|in|wilmington|isabel|is|marri|the|other|singl
isabel|d|bradway|marri|charl|a|pettit|of|philadelphia|she|is|dead
leav|one|son|frank|d|who|marri|margaret|whilden|they|have|one
son|frank|nine|year|old
thoma|d|bradway|s|second|wife|was|sarah|miller|a|daughter|of|mar
tin|iiller|thev|had|four|children|richard|dunlap|and|william|m|who
die|in|infanc|eliza|and|frank|d|unmarri|eliza|bradway|marri
mr|duboisson|of|natchez|they|had|one|child|eliza|who|marri|dr|cox
and|live|and|die|on|a|plantat|near|the|yazoo|rier|in|mississip|3i|and
left|six|children
the|blackwood|famili|are|descend|from|the|editor|of|blackwood|s
magazin|edinboro|scotland
william|bradway|and|sarah|hancock|were|marri|second|month|12th
one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|and|had|the|follow|children|illiam|who|marri|mari|ware
and|mari|bradway|marri|john|thompson|of|elsinboro|illiam|brad
way|sr|mention|in|his|will|his|grandson|adna|samuel|and|joseph|brad
way|and|granddaught|sarah|and|rebecca|adna|marri|mari|paulin
and|had|the|follow|children|jame|sarah|mari|and|matilda|bradway
jame|marri|elizabeth|a|daughter|of|edward|and|mari|harri|bradway
nee|warner|and|went|west|sarah|marri|ephraim|turner|and|had|the
follow|children|edmund|marri|jniari|ann|tice|issu|joanna|now
deceas|and|carri|who|marri|and|resid|up|jersey|ann|turner|mar
rie|first|joshua|tharp|second|husband|john|smith|issu|dr|winfield
scott|smith|elizabeth|turner|marri|job|griscom|issu|roliert|b
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and three
who|marri|elizabeth|butcher|a|daughter|of|roljert|and|mari|ann
butcher|and|their|children|were|john|elwood|job|t|sarah|and|wilham
marv|turner|marri|richard|hancock|issu|harriet|who|marri|albert
fogg|issu|howard|mari|deceas|elizabeth|luke|f|john|richard
franci|and|mari|ann|fogg|albert|fogg|marri|a|descend|of|the
emigr|edward|bradway|and|is|now|the|owner|of|the|properti|my|father
william|bradway|inherit|under|the|old|english|law|said|properti|deed
by|the|emigr|to|his|son|william|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-two|sarah|bradway|hancock|mar
rie|d|harri|smith|issu|ralph|ogden|smith|clara|f|who|marri
alvin|w|davi|issu|edward|and|linni|davi
in|a|book|in|the|mercantil|librari|in|philadelphia|entitl|american
of|royal|descent|occur|the|name|of|ruth|bradway|who|marri|josiah
davi|a|descend|of|a|famili|trace|their|descent|from|one|of|the|english
king|mari|l|who|marri|georg|smith|had|issu|live|anna|winfield
and|richard|smith|calvin|g|turner|marri|kesiah|moor|second|wife
harriet|rainear|rebecca|turner|marri|joseph|b|finlaw|and|had|issu
mari|sarah|elizabeth|william|joseph|and|ephraim
sarah|turner|marri|daniel|hire|a|brother|of|georg|hire|ex
congressman|also|a|brother|of|the|late|john|hire|exsherif|and|of|charl
hire|a|promin|busi|man|of|salem|her|children|were|georg
anna|elizabeth|ephraim|laura|and|mari|her|second|husband|was
lieuten|joseph|carter|who|enter|the|navi|juli|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|at|portsmouth
new|hampshir|his|certif|was|sign|by|presid|lincoln|and
gideon|well|the|secretan|of|the|navi|which|mrs|carter|has|now|in|her
possess|he|fought|all|through|the|war|and|was|in|the|senic|thirti
year|hold|mani|posit|of|trust|and|was|assign|as|one|of|the|offic
on|board|the|cruiser|richmond|in|which|general|grant|travel|around|the
world|he|and|grant|were|veri|good|friend|his|duti|on|land|extend
about|ten|year|in|differ|navi|yard|his|last|duti|was|at|cramp|ship
yard|at|philadelphia|as|inspector|of|hull|he|was|order|befor|the|retir
board|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|was|retir|with|high|honor|as|to|his|abil|as|an
offic|he|live|at|manchest|massachusett|until|his|death|juli|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
he|was|a|man|of|fine|tast|and|made|a|larg|collect|dure|his|journey
around|the|world|of|lacquer|and|japanes|curio
ephraim|and|sarah|turner|had|three|children|hannah|ephraim|and
ruth|turner|who|die|at|an|earli|age|william|bradway|sr|mention|in
his|will|to|my|grandson|adna|bradway|all|that|plantat|and|tract|of
land|i|bought|of|william|carll|adjoin|the|place|i|live|on|and|whereon
the|said|adna|bradway|now|live|samuel|bradway|marri|and|had
three|children|ruth|mari|ann|and|samuel|ruth|marri|josiah|davi
two hundred and four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|their|children|were|anni|edward|alljert|iiam|esther|and|hannah
mari|ann|marri|john|mccolhster|and|their|chikhen|were|gichon|isaliel
emili|william|harriet|and|charl
william|bradway|jr|born|tenth|mo|loth|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-four|and|mari|ware|born
iith|mo|17th|one hundred and seventy-five|daughter|of|john|and|elizabeth|ware|were|marri
twelfth|mo|30th|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three|and|had|five|children|sarah|bradway|one|orn|sixth
mo|i2th|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|anna|bradway|second|mo|13th|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|ezra|bradway|bom
first|mo|i2th|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|john|bradway|first|mo|28th|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|and|rachel|brad
way|third|mo|2d|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|sarah|marri|elisha|stretch|and|their|children
were|mari|joshua|william|ann|and|job|stretch|mari|marri|mark|the
son|of|mark|and|martha|bradway|and|live|but|a|short|time|die|without
issu|joshua|marri|elizabeth|the|daughter|of|waddington|bradway|sr
they|had|one|son|joshua|stretch|who|studi|medicin|and|practic|his
profess|in|salem|for|a|time|he|marri|lydia|a|daughter|of|lark
bainer|of|philadelphia|he|left|salem|and|remov|to|philadelphia|where
he|die|soon|after|of|consumpt|he|left|a|widow|and|children|his
father|joshua|was|remark|for|his|high|moral|charact|william|second
son|learn|the|tailor|busi|he|was|profici|in|his|call|and
his|custom|were|the|best|in|the|town|and|counti|toward|the|close|of|his
life|he|left|salem|with|his|famili|and|remov|to|jersey|citi|ann|the
youngest|daughter|marri|john|d|a|son|of|mark|and|elizalieth|denn
stewart|they|had|seven|children|elizabeth|charl|elisha|sarah
jame|john|and|ann|stewart|elisha|was|in|compani|f|twelfth|new|jer
sey|volunt|and|was|in|the|armi|of|the|potomac|jame|was|in|the
west|when|the|war|began|and|enlist|in|the|twelfth|iowa|was|taken|pris
oner|at|the|ijattl|of|shiloh|and|sent|to|andersonvill|irison|kept|there|for
eight|month|befor|be|exchang|and|sent|again|to|the|front|at|vick
burg|was|taken|sick|there|and|came|home|to|die|job|the|youngest|son
of|elisha|and|sarah|bradway|stretch|was|appprent|to|his|brother|will
iam|to|learn|the|tailor|busi|and|he|follow|that|occup|in|salem
dure|the|remaind|of|his|life|his|wife|was|catharin|a|daughter|of|john
nicholson|a|lineal|descend|of|samuel|nicholson|who|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|emigr
to|this|countri|with|john|fenwick|and|his|famili|from|the|counti|of|north
amptonshir|eng|job|and|his|wife|catharin|had|the|follow|children
eliza|charl|harriet|and|mari|eliza|marri|joseph|paul|of|phila
delphia|mari|marri|john|p|more|harriet|die|young
anna|bradway|marri|jame|stewart|their|children|were|hannah
and|mari|stewart|hannah|die|young|and|unmarri|mari|marri
illiam|a|son|of|william|and|ann|stewart|griscom|their|children|were
hannah|who|marri|charl|marott|of|philadelphia|william|wade|ori
c0ngress10x4l|district|of|xew|jersey|two hundred and five
com|who|marri|sarah|cooper|a|daughter|of|jame|cooper|near|wood
buri|and|they|have|children|jame|marri|hannah|borton|of|wood
town|anna|bradway|s|second|husband|was|samuel|fogg|a|son|of|edward
and|hannah|ware|fogg|and|had|one|son|william|fogg|of|salem|who
was|born|march|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|marri|mari|hancock|hall|she|was|born
twelfth|day|of|the|first|month|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|at|six|of|the|clock|in|the|morn|date|of
marriag|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|they|had|eight|children|susan|born|7th|of
februari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|die|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|she|marri|nathaniel|wodruff
of|bridgeton|and|had|five|children|frank|mari|e|william|s|clement
and|preston|k|samuel|fogg|born|15th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|die|27th|of
octob|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|sarah|h|fogg|born|the|nth|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|die|the
nth|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|anna|b|fogg|born|the|27th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty
die|the|15th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|sarah|h|fogg|born|the|29th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three
marri|5tli|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|peter|lautz|and|had|seven|children|three|of
whom|now|live|samuel|anna|and|lili|clement|fogg|born|the|13th
of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|is|now|live|in|salem|william|h|fogg|born|the|17th|of
januari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|lie|august|25th|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|left|a|widow|and|two|children
mari|and|harr|fogg|emili|h|fogg|marri|richard|ivirbi|the|29th|of
novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|is|now|deceas|she|had|no|issu
rachel|bradway|s|first|husband|was|joseph|stewart|a|son|of|samuel|and
sarah|tyler|stewart|of|salem|township|their|children|were|iniari|anna
and|lydia|stewart|rachel|s|second|husband|was|david|griscom|a|teacher
of|qerment|board|school|near|philadelphia|for|sever|year|they|had
two|children|rachel|and|david|he|afterward|gave|up|his|school|and|pur
chase|a|farm|in|chester|counti|pennsylvania|remov|to|it|and|there|end
his|day|his|daughter|rachel|marri|a|man|by|the|name|of|alsop
john|bradway|a|son|of|william|and|mari|w|bradway|was|born|first
mo|28th|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|marri|hannah|pancoast|a|daughter|of|john|and|sarah
keasbi|pancoast|and|had|the|follow|children|clayton|born|eighth|mo
20th|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|beulah|bom|sixth|mo|2d|one hundred and eighty-one|one|die|age|six|day|sarah|p
born|seventh|mo|loth|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|mari|ann|bradway|and|achsah|ann|bradway
were|born|12th|mo|4th|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|john|bradway|s|second|wife|was|clarissa
hancock|they|had|two|children|john|h|bradway|born|tenth|mo|3d
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|in|philadelphia|and|hannah|bradway|born|seventh|mo|ist|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three
who|die|eleventh|mo|ist|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|his|father|then|be|in|the|lumber|busi
ness|at|maiden|street|wharf|kensington|but|have|obtain|a|leas|of|land
from|richmond|to|point|no|point|he|bank|in|the|meadow|between|these
point|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|now|occupi|by|the|read|railroad|companv|for|coal
ship|etc|and|die|second|mo|28th|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|at|the|age|of|thirtyseven
2o6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
clarissa|h|brachvay|wit|her|son|john|h|move|to|fourth|and|button
wood|where|they|remain|until|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six
john|receiv|a|fair|educ|in|privat|school|and|at|the|age|of|sixteen
hecam|an|assist|teacher|in|samuel|w|black|s|academi|where|he|had
been|a|pupil|for|three|year|and|remain|with|him|until|he|was|twentyon
year|of|age|attend|lectur|at|the|franklin|institut|dure|each|winter
about|this|time|the|public|school|of|philadelphia|had|becom|quit|popular
and|privat|school|were|not|so|well|patron|john|left|philadelphia|in
the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|to|take|charg|of|a|school|at|woodstown|new|jersey|to|be
known|as|the|bacon|seminari|the|hous|not|be|complet|he|taught
in|the|old|brick|hous|adjoin|until|spring|and|then|remov|to|the|new
build|where|he|remain|until|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|when|he|remov|to
sculltown|and|associ|himself|with|georg|risley|in|merchandis|from
there|he|went|to|clarksboro|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|have|purchas|the|stock|of|thoma
r|adam|at|the|time|and|two|year|later|the|entir|properti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|le
marri|mari|e|tonkin|born|first|mo|i8th|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|a|daughter|of|edward
and|elizabeth|clark|tonkin|her|father|wide|known|as|the|raiser|of|the
famous|tonkin|cattl|name|the|duke|of|york|and|the|earl|of|jersey|paint
ing|of|which|by|woodsid|of|philadelphia|the|celebr|cattl|painter|of
that|time|are|in|possess|of|his|daughter|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|he|sold|the|store|prop
erti|and|purchas|a|farm|known|as|the|coursault|place|then|pronounc
cruso|at|mickelton|on|which|he|resid|until|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|in|the
fall|of|which|year|he|was|elect|a|member|of|the|legislatur|liy|a|flatter
major
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|5th|month|7th|he|was|elect|the|cashier|of|the|gloucest
counti|bank|at|woodburi|and|afterward|first|nation|and|continu|as
cashier|vicepresid|and|presid|for|thirtyeight|year|resign|on|his
seventyfifth|birthday|edward|t|bradway|enter|the|same|bank|now|the
first|nation|bank|of|woodburi|when|sixteen|year|old|and|remain|as
assist|cashier|and|cashier|for|twenti|year|resign|on|account|of|i|will
health|william|bradway|enter|the|state|bank|in|camden|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|and|is
pay|teller|in|the|citi|offic|at|this|time|edward|t|bradway|son|of|john
h|and|mari|e|bradway|was|born|fifth|month|31st|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|clara|bradway
a|daughter|of|john|h|and|mari|e|bradway|was|born|eighth|month|21st
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|john|c|bradway|a|son|of|john|h|and|mari|e|his|wife|was|born
third|month|21st|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|william|bradway|a|son|of|john|h|and|mari|e
was|born|eigdith|month|25th|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|john|saeger|bradway|a|son|of|william
bradway|and|jenni|s|his|wife|was|born|2d|month|17th|isgo|margaret
saegar|bradway|a|daughter|of|william|bradway|and|jenni|his|wife|was
born|tenth|month|12th|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|mari|b|crevel|a|daughter|of|wesley
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and seven
crevel|and|clara|b|his|wife|was|l|orn|second|month|27th|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|and
die|nintii|month|7th|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|john|bradway|jr|die|second|month|28th
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|hannah|p|his|wife|die|seventh|month|2d|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|ezra|bradway|a
son|of|wilham|bradway|jr|and|mari|ware|daughter|of|john|and|ehzabeth
ware|was|born|may|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|and|die|februari|six|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|age|thirtyfv
year|marv|denn|a|daughter|of|jame|and|ehzabeth|kirlji|denn|was
born|januari|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|they|were|marri|februari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and four|william
bradway|a|son|of|ezra|and|mari|denn|bradway|was|born|octob|three|half
past|seven|of|the|clock|in|the|morn|in|the|year|of|one thousand, eight hundred and five|they|had|the|follow
ing|children|john|w|bradway|born|april|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|georg|bradway|born
februari|twenty-three|eighteen|ten|and|die|april|four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|anna|bradway|born|februari|fourteen
one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|die|juli|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|lark|d|bradway|born|august|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|and
charl|bradway|june|twenty-six|one hundred and eighty-one|seven
iar|denn|bradway|s|second|husband|was|elisha|stretch|grandson|of
john|stewart|the|emigr|their|children|were|beulah|born|april|six|one hundred and eighty-two|one
marri|nathan|kiger|and|had|the|follow|children|mari|kiger|who
die|young|alfr|who|marri|jane|armstrong|and|has|two|children
lewi|who|never|marri|nathan|jr|who|went|west|and|was|never|heard
from|and|anni|who|marri|charl|carll|and|has|one|son|arthur|mari
d|stretch|born|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|die|a|young|woman|unmarri
age|twentyf|year|nine|month|sarah|b|stretch|born|may|five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine
marri|joseph|mitten|had|one|daughter|mari|now|deceas|and|is|still
live|in|iowa|a|widow|elisha|stretch|die|septemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|age|six
tvthree|vear|eight|month
william|bradway|marri|mari|w|shourd|a|daughter|of|samuel|and
elizabeth|ware|shourd|she|was|born|in|penn|s|neck|januari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and four
and|marri|william|bradway|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|they|had|the|follow|chil
dren|elizabeth|a|born|alarch|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|sarah|septemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|mari
septemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|anni|rachel|februari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|ellen|februari|five
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|william|bradway|die|septemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|age|seventytwo|year
and|larv|w|bradway|die|august|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|age|mneti|year|and|six
month|elizabeth|marri|jeremiah|powel|a|son|of|john|and|rebecca
powel|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|and|they|had|six|children|sarah|ware|powel|born
decemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|mari|bradway|juli|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|anni|juli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|a|son
born|januari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|louisa|novemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|john|august|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
sarah|w|powel|and|henri|h|fogg|son|of|richard|and|mari|woolman
fogg|were|marri|in|philadelphia|by|the|mayor|march|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|they
had|the|follow|children|henri|norman|born|novemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|helen
johnson|april|four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|edith|march|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|henri|h|fogg|was
born|decemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|die|august|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|john|powel|marri
2o8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
bertha|a|daughter|of|wilham|and|ann|enghsh|harri|and|has|two|chil
dren|ehzabeth|and|jeremiah|elizabeth|a|powel|die|januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
amo|harri|marri|first|catherin|smith|of|elsinboro|and|had|three
children|rebecca|hannah|j|and|stretch|amo|harri|and|sarah|brad
way|were|marri|march|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|and|had|five|children|catherin|smith
bom|june|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|sarah|marian|june|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|margaret|c|august|twenty-three
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|die|ninth|month|6th|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|howard|born|januari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and
mari|lincoln|august|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight
sarah|m|harri|marri|william|johnson|of|lower|penn|s|neck|a
son|of|jame|s|and|sarah|lindzey|johnson|the|25th|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|had
four|children|jame|r|johnson|born|may|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|josephin|johnson
june|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|marguerit|harri|johnson|born|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|die
juli|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|howard|harri|johnson|born|april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
howard|harri|of|elsinboro|and|berth|vaughan|of|philadelphia|a
daughter|of|john|and|eliza|vaughan|were|marri|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|in
philadelphia|and|have|two|children|ellen|b|harri|born|august|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four
and|john|v|harri|januari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six
mari|harri|of|elsinboro|and|robert|newel|vanneman|of|man
ton|a|son|of|edwin|a|and|josephin|vanneman|were|marri|januari|eighteen
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|at|philadelphia|by|mayor|fitler|and|had|three|children|marian|j
vanneman|born|decemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|margaret|h|vanneman|march|twenty-seven
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|william|b|anneman|may|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|mr|r|n|vanneman|was
elect|the|sheriff|of|salem|counti|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine
quinton|p|harri|and|elizabeth|t|powel|were|marri|and|had|two
children|anna|who|die|in|infanc|and|elizabeth|powel|born|octob|twenty-three
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and|marri|richard|i|acton|jr|a|son|of|casper|and|rachel|g
acton|januari|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|for|his|second|wife|quinton|p|harri|marri
mari|a|daughter|of|illiam|and|lari|ware|bradway|januari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two
they|had|five|children|luci|born|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|marri|l|clinton
arnold|a|lawyer|of|lancast|pennsylvania|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|martha
english|born|august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|die|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|ellen|bradway|born
januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|marri|dr|w|scott|smith|a|son|of|john|and|ann
turner|smith|may|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|margaret|born|decemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|quinton
parker|harri|born|juli|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|now|in|california
anni|bradway|has|been|a|success|teacher|for|mani|year|rachel
bradway|marri|joseph|wallen|sheppard|a|son|of|william|and|sarah
fithian|sheppard|februari|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|had|four|children|ralph|may
was|born|march|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|die|januari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|william|bradway|born
may|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|die|decemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|ruth|evan|sheppard|born|de
cember|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|and|anni|bradway|sheppard|born|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|ruth
congression|district|of|neir|jersey|two hundred and nine
marri|william|b|sickler|a|son|of|zaccheus|and|anna|miller|sickler|april
fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|in|philadelphia|by|mayor|warwick|they|have|one|son|joseph
wallen|sheppard|born|decemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|joseph|sheppard|born
juli|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|die|august|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|ellen|bradway|never|marri|and|re
main|with|her|parent|until|their|death
john|bradway|a|son|of|ezra|and|mari|ware|bradway|marri
rhoda|b|butcher|a|daughter|of|dr|joseph|and|harriet|butcher|and|they
had|six|children|harriet|e|marri|georg|m|chester|of|camden|counti
new|jersev|a|son|of|john|w|and|lari|d|chester|mari|d|bradway|mar
rie|reuben|l|sharp|rhoda|marri|b|f|ladow|emma|marri
david|d|sharp|john|jr|marri|ella|harri|william|marri|hannah
sharp|his|second|wife|was|franc|mccarter|harriet|and|georg|chester|s
children|were|georg|jr|who|die|at|the|age|of|thirtysix|harriet|b|who
die|at|the|age|of|three|year|mari|d|who|die|at|twenti|year|of|age
frank|who|die|at|birth|and|john|w|now|live|georg|jr|left|a|widow
emma|and|two|daughter|harriet|and|julia|mari|bradway|and|reuben
sharp|had|seven|children|viz|dr|ezra|sharp|now|practic|in|camden
new|jersey|joseph|a|dentist|in|bridgeton|jenni|a|doctor|in|camden
dalla|a|preacher|and|writer|near|boston|phoeb|and|mari|the|first|and
second|wive|of|william|morgan|both|die|of|consumpt|mari|s|second
husband|was|william|snagg|and|they|have|two|children|lizzi|and|john
rhoda|bradway|and|b|f|ladow|had|six|children|emma|bradway|and
david|sharp|also|had|six|children|rhoda|emma|duffield|samuel|levi
and|burleigh|john|jr|and|ella|his|wife|had|the|follow|children|eva
edward|frank|howard|and|raymond|william|and|hannah|his|wife|had
these|children|chari|joseph|henri|and|john|by|his|second|wife
franc|he|had|one|daughter|rhoda
tvlark|bradwa|the|son|of|ezra|marri|emelin|last|name|forgotten
and|had|three|children|georg|vincent|and|emili|now|live|in|lowa
as|a|rule|the|occup|of|the|bradway|famili|has|been|that|of|farm
and|their|religion|that|of|the|friend|for|two|hundr|year
jonathan|bradwav|s|son|jonathan|marri|elizabeth|stewart|a|daughter
of|john|and|mari|wade|stewart|the|emigr|their|children|were|john
mark|and|thoma|john|bradway|marri|abigail|groft|second|month
27th|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|and|went|west|mark|bradway|marri|the|daughter|of|thoma
hartley|and|had|one|son|thoma|h|his|second|wife|was|martha|denn|a
daughter|of|john|and|elizabeth|bacon|denn|and|had|one|son|mark|brad
way|who|was|a|merchant|at|hancock|s|bridg|for|sever|year|he|mar
rie|first|sarah|robert|a|daughter|of|thoma|and|prudenc|hancock
rol|ert|their|children|were|rachel|and|martha|his|second|wife|was
2io|biograph|histori|of|the|first
beiilah|stewart|a|daughter|of|jame|stewart|and|mari|his|wife|rachel
marri|charl|bradway|their|children|were|edwin|beulah|charl|jr
carolin|and|albert|bradway|edwin|charl|and|beulah|are|marri|and
live|in|iowa|albert|is|marri|and|live|in|oregon|thoma|h|bradw|ay
was|by|occup|a|tailor|and|did|a|veri|extens|busi|in|that|line|for
mani|year|his|hous|and|shop|were|locat|on|fenwick|street|where
holtz|s|build|now|stand|thoma|s|wife|was|rachel|worthington|a
daughter|of|david|and|jael|worthington|thoma|subsequ|purchas
a|larg|farm|in|east|nottingham|township|chester|counti|pennsylvania
the|farm|was|much|reduc|when|he|bought|it|but|by|his|industri|and|good
manag|it|prove|to|be|a|profit|invest|he|live|to|a|great|age
most|of|his|descend|live|there|at|the|present|time|rachel|bradway|a
daughter|of|jonathan|marri|samuel|hancock|and|they|had|three|chil
dren|rebecca|prudenc|and|samuel|rebecca|s|first|husband|was|ephraim
pagett|her|second|husband|was|barzilla|jeftr|prudenc|hancock|s|hus
band|was|thoma|robert|he|was|a|merchant|and|a|practic|surveyor|at
hancock|s|bridg|dure|the|greater|part|of|his|life|few|men|had|more
friend|and|fewer|enemi|at|the|time|of|their|death|than|he|those|live|at
that|time|testifi|that|they|never|wit|such|a|larg|concours|of|peopl
of|all|denomin|as|attend|his|funer|show|that|his|friend|and
neighbor|duli|appreci|his|good|of|charact|and|were|desir|to
pay|their|last|respect|to|him|on|earth|he|left|two|children|samuel|and
sarah|robert
edward|bradway|a|son|of|jonathan|and|susanna|oakford|bradway
was|born|may|thirty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|elizabeth|w|bradway|a|daughter|of|jonathan|and
mari|ann|waddington|his|wife|was|born|februari|eleven|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|and|had|the
follow|children|david|born|novemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-one|hannah|march|three
one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four|edward|may|i|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|waddington|june|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|elizabeth|januari
twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-four|and|adna|born|februari|sixteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|david|a|son|of|edward|and
elizabeth|w|bradway|marri|hannah|rolph|bradway|a|daughter|of
aaron|bradway|of|elsinboro|their|children|were|taci|and|sarah|taci
marri|elisha|fogg|and|went|west|taci|s|brother|edward|bradwa|went
with|them|sarah|marri|mark|townsend|hannah|bradway|marri|job
stretch|waddington|bradway|first|marri|mar|bate|and|had|three
children|edward|elizabeth|and|phebe|bradway|his|second|wife|was
hannah|a|daughter|of|jonathan|and|elizabeth|stretch|they|had|two|chil
dren|jonathan|and|merci|bradway|edward|bradway|marri|mari|har
ris|nee|warner|the|mother|of|sila|and|sheppard|harri|their|children
were|william|ann|elizabeth|merci|william|marri|lydia|dare|and
their|children|were|elexand|stewart|and|joseph|bradway|elexand
coxgressioxl|district|of|xejl|jersey|two hundred and eleven
marri|reliecca|sim|stewart|braclway|was|born|feliriiari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three
addi|f|stitt|his|wife|was|born|iarch|six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|they|were|marri|decem
ber|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|she|was|the|daughter|of|dr|ilham|f|stitt|and|sarah|e|a
daughter|of|ebenez|hawk|and|a|granddaught|of|samuel|and|sarah
hawk|a|direct|descend|from|the|pilgrim|of|that|name|samuel|hawk
parent|hear|the|indian|warwhoop|rush|to|the|fort|in|franklin|counti
massachusett|said|samuel|was|born|in|the|fort|befor|peac|was|declar
with|the|indian|sarah|e|hawk|marri|dr|w|f|stitt|june|six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and
die|septemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|she|live|to|see|seven|generat|of|her|famili
there|never|has|been|a|death|among|her|descend|for|fiftythre|year
the|name|of|stewart|and|addi|bradway|s|children|are|ella|m|born|april
six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|illiam|f|decemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|charl|s|juli|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|and|mari
e|born|januari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|ella|bradway|marri|jame|massey|william
f|marri|lida|griscom|joseph|bradway|marri|mari|smith|a|daughter
of|josiah|and|elizabeth|smith|and|has|two|children|emma|and|ray
mond|emma|marri|calvin|cain|who|die|leav|one|child|anni|e
a|daughter|of|william|bradway|die|young|and|unmarri|lydia|ini
marri|clark|roork|ann|bradway|a|daughter|of|edward|marri|will
iam|fennimor|and|their|children|are|charl|edward|and|preston|fenni
more|charl|marri|mari|h|clark|and|had|one|child|william|fenni
more|elizabeth|bradway|marri|jame|bradway|and|went|west|merci
bradway|marri|josiah|thompson|elizabeth|bradway|marri|abraham
silver|and|had|three|children|adna|elizabeth|and|mari|silver|jon
athan|bradway|marri|dorca|a|daughter|of|andrew|and|sarah|griscom
and|their|children|were|hannah|georg|and|sarah|jane|who|marri|i|will
iam|elkinton|and|has|one|son|merci|marri|jacoli|ridgway|and|had|two
children|keziah|die|a|young|woman|and|unmarri|waddington|b
ridgway|marri|ann|powel|a|daughter|of|john|and|rebecca|powel
and|had|one|daughter|lydia|and|four|son|john|harri|william|and|ed
ward|waddington|bradway|s|third|wife|was|hannah|bauer|a|daughter
of|elisha|and|lydia|baner|of|cape|may|their|children|were|waddington
jr|hannah|isaac|lydia|susan|and|josiah|bradway|waddington|jr
marri|rebecca|chatten|june|five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|had|three|children|jame|c
bradway|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|waddington|bradway|jr|august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and
franklin|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|jame|marri|mari|jane|fogg|and|had|two
children|william|f|and|jame|c|bradway|waddington|jr|marri
lizzi|b|fowler|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|and|had|three|children|rebecca|c
born|decemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|hannah|b|born|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|marri|robert|c
applebi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|elizabeth|born|februari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|marri|john|d
aspen|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|franklin|bradway|and|li|la|f|jone|were|marri|novem
two hundred and twelve|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ber|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|william|h|jone|and|franci|n|waddington|parent|of|lida
bradway|were|marri|on|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|hannah|bradway|marri
first|el|enezar|harmer|and|second|she|marri|jame|dare|of|cumber
land|counti|and|by|neither|union|had|issu|isaac|bradway|marri|rachel
ann|chatten|of|atlant|count|new|jersey|their|children|were|mari
elma|rachel|isaac|and|judson|lydia|and|susan|remain|singl|josiah
bradway|s|first|wife|and|mother|of|his|children|was|elizabeth|o|balling
their|children|were|mari|elma|ella|edward|and|stratton|sarah|bradway
a|daughter|of|jonathan|and|susanna|oakford|bradway|and|william|adam
jr|of|penn|s|neck|were|marri|august|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four|they|had|two|children
susanna|and|john|adam|susanna|was|the|wife|of|the|late|benjamin|gris
com|of|salem|adna|marri|first|sarah|a|daughter|of|john|and|esther
baker|who|own|the|properti|that|ouinton|harri|now|own|john|son
of|adna|and|sarah|bradway|was|born|august|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and two|and|die|octob
five|one thousand, eight hundred and two|sarah|baker|the|first|wife|of|adna|bradway|die|novemb|thirty
one thousand, eight hundred and three|age|twentyfour|year|eight|day|adna|brad|way|s|second|wife
was|lydia|bauer|born|novemb|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-two|die|decemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|age
eightyfour|year|adna|bradway|die|april|twenty-four|i860|age|eightythre
year|two|month|and|eight|day|sarah|daughter|of|adna|and|lydia|brad
way|born|novemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|die|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|elisha|b|b|born
eleventh|month|ist|one hundred and eighty-one|one|die|octob|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|adna|born|eighth|month
3d|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|die|sexenth|month|4th|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|age|seventyon|year|jacob
born|eleventh|month|30th|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|die|twelfth|month|9th|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|age|eighti
two|edward|born|sixth|month|19th|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|and|marri|amelia
baner|12th|mo|26th|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|lydia|born|tenth|month|31st|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one
die|septemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|age|thirtyf|year|ten|month|and|ten
day|jonathan|was|born|third|month|14th|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|elizabeth|born|eleventh
month|two|1st|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|die|first|month|24th|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|adna|a|son|of|adna|and
lydia|bradway|marri|mari|grey|februari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and|their|children
were|andrew|grey|born|third|month|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|frank|edgar|born|may
twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|adna|born|tenth|month|twenty-seven|eighteen|mari|grey|born|sixth|month
3d|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|nathan|adna|born|sixth|month|loth|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|mari|gray|their
mother|die|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|adna|bradway|the|father|die|seventh
month|4th|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|edward|bradway|die|tenth|month|25th|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|eliza
beth|his|wife|die|first|month|20th|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|age|fiftysix|year|susanna|his
second|wife|die|first|month|2d|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|jonathan|bradway|bom|third
month|14th|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|mani|lydia|ann|a|daughter|of|edward|and|prudenc
keasbey|waddington|and|has|one|daughter|lydia|p|bradway|bom
august|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|marri|februari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|to|elmer|griscom|a|son|of
morri|and|imargaret|griscom
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and thirteen
dna|bradway|s|son|were|quiet|industri|men|pursu|the|even
tenor|of|their|way|without|show|or|pretens|and|consequ|amass
gjltl|sarah|bradway|harri
harri|fah
the|harri|familv|is|a|numer|and|influenti|one|loth|in|cumberland
and|salem|counti|two|brother|by|the|name|of|samuel|and|thoma
emir|from|wale|about|the|begin|of|the|eighteenth|centuri|land
in|at|long|island|where|their|stay|was|of|short|durat|hearmg|there
ws|a|larg|emigr|from|the|state|of|new|york|and|connecticut|they
conclud|thev|would|emigr|to|south|jersey|and|came|to|cohansey|pre
cinct|where|they|purchas|land|and|settl|lani|of|their|descend
are|resid|of|cumberland|counti|at|the|present|time
braham|harri|a|son|of|samuel|purchas|one|hundr|and|fifti|acr
of|land|in|allowav|s|creek|township|be|part|of|john|chandler|s|allot
ment|the|said|land|was|bound|on|the|west|by|anni|salter|s|tenthousand
acr|tract|of|land|the|point|where|abraham|harri|built|and|live|was|on
the|place|known|at|the|present|time|as|the|johnsonharri|farm|theland
extend|up|to|the|road|that|lead|from|ouinton|s|bridg|to|wood|s|upper
ylill|braham|harri|after|he|had|purchas|the|aforesaid|land|built|him
self|a|log|hous|and|marri|esther|lang|they|had|six|son|and|one
dauohter|whose|name|were|abraham|born|one hundred and seventy-four|isaac|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight|jacob
one|seventy-five|one|john|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|permanus|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-five|nichola|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|and|sophia|harri|about
one thousand, seven hundred and sixty|abraham|harri|the|father|of|the|abov|children|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|age
al|out|fftythre|his|widow|surviv|him|a|few|year|after|the|death|of
abrahamharri|sr|the|land|was|divid|among|his|children
abraham|the|eldest|son|of|abraham|and|esther|harri|marri|keren
happuch|blackwood|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|the|blackwood|came|from|scotland|he
built|himself|a|dwellinghous|near|the|mill|road|on|his|share|of|his|father|s
land|and|at|that|place|he|end|his|day|after|reach|the|great|age|of
ninetythre|year|and|ten|month|he|was|long|a|member|of|the|baptist
church|of|salem|and|a|consist|christian|have|been|baptiz|befor|he
was|twenti|year|of|age|and|was|one|of|the|deacon|of|said|church|for|mani
year|he|frequent|walk|to|salem|meet|a|distanc|of|seven|mile
after|he|was|over|nineti|year|of|age|he|was|an|ardent|whig|at|the|time
of|the|revolut|and|volunt|as|a|militiaman|under|colonel|hand|and
holm|abraham|and|his|wife|kerenhappnch|harri|had|four|children
dalvmor|elizabeth|samuel|and|iargaret|harri|dalymor|the|eldest
two hundred and fourteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
son|marri|letitia|acton|a|dauglit|of|joseph|acton|the|latter|was|a
grandson|of|benjamin|acton|the|emin|surveyor|of|salem|dalymor
and|his|wife|letitia|harri|had|seven|children|who|live|to|grow|up|marri
and|had|famili|their|name|were|josiah|ephraim|mar|ann|samuel
dalymor|elizabeth|and|parmenus|harri|josiah|the|eldest|resid|the
most|of|his|hfe|after|he|arriv|at|manhood|in|upper|penn|s|neck|he|mar
rie|sarah|johnson|of|penn|s|grove|and|had|six|children|whose|name|are
lari|jame|illiam|edward|kate|and|anni|josiah|their|father|has
been|deceas|for|a|number|of|year|ephraim|the|second|son|of|dalymor
and|letitia|harri|was|a|blacksmith|by|trade|he|marri|catherin|bal
lenger|her|father|resid|near|ouinton|s|bridg|some|time|after|mar
riag|he|abandon|his|trade|and|purchas|a|farm|near|the|villag|and|went
to|farm|and|continu|in|that|call|until|his|death|they|had|one|son
josiah|harri|who|resid|where|his|parent|live|lie|marri|the|daughter
of|william|robinson
mari|ann|the|daughter|of|dalymor|and|letitia|harri|marri|william
morrison|and|had|six|children|letitia|georg|r|anna|susan|charl
and|mari|ann|mari|ann|the|mother|die|when|her|children|were|minor
consequ|the|care|and|respons|of|their|educ|and|moral|train
devolv|princip|upon|her|daughter|letitia|anna|the|second|daughter
die|a|few|year|after|her|mother|georg|r|morrison|marri|sarah|jane
a|daughter|of|william|and|rebecca|plummer|and|they|have|five|children
thoma|harri|anna|mari|and|georg|morrison|jr|georg|r|morrison
now|deceas|was|the|surrog|of|salem|counti|for|mani|year|mari
ann|die|of|consumpt|letitia|and|susan|are|also|deceas|william
morrison|the|father|of|the|abovement|children|abandon|the|mer
cantil|busi|at|hancock|s|bridg|and|purchas|properti|in|elsinboro
near|salem|he|has|been|deceas|for|mani|year|samuel|a|son|of|dali
more|and|letitia|harri|was|a|hous|carpent|by|trade|after|he|becam|of
age|he|resid|at|cape|may|court|hous|and|marri|mar|foster|they
had|three|children|all|daughter|samuel|is|deceas|elizabeth|a|daugh
ter|of|dalymor|and|letitia|harri|marri|georg|clark|and|they|have
two|children|william|and|mari|clark|william|marri|emma|cobb|and
had|one|son|charl|mari|marri|charl|fennimor|and|has|one|son
illiam|who|marri|amanda|ayr|and|has|two|children|daughter|and
son
dalymor|a|son|of|dalymor|and|letitia|harri|marri|heneretta
bowen|they|have|one|daughter|mari|elizabeth|harri|a|school|teacher
parmenus|a|son|of|dalymor|harri|sr|marri|rebecca|jaquett|and
thev|had|two|children|dalvmor|harri|was|a|weaver|bv|trade|and|follow
coxgressiox|district|of|nejv|jersey|two hundred and fifteen
that|busi|for|more|than|forti|year|in|the|villag|of|hancock|s|bridg
he|was|likewis|surveyor|have|preced|thoma|robem|beug|en
dow|with|uncommon|memori|he|was|an|extens|reader|both|of|ancient
and|modern|historv|particular|english|histori|and|that|o|his|own|countiy
he|surav|his|wife|a|number|of|year|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|m|his|eightyseventh
year|and|was|buri|in|the|baptist|cemeteri|at|salem|he|was|for|mani
vear|of|his|life|a|member|of|the|baptist|societi|he|resid|in|the|same
hous|at|hancock|s|bridg|for|sixti|year|and|was|postmast|forti|year
elizabeth|a|daughter|of|abraham|and|kerenhappuch|harri|marri
elli|simpkin|and|die|in|earli|life|leav|sever|children|samuel|a|son
of|braham|never|marri|and|die|age|eightytwo|year|margaret|a
daughter|of|abraham|never|marri|live|to|old|age|and|after|her|mother|s
death|took|charg|of|her|father|s|hous
isaac|the|second|son|of|abraham|and|esther|harri|was|born|m|one hundred and seventy-four
and|live|at|the|old|mansion|he|has|been|repres|as|an|uncommon
industri|man|when|voung|he|becam|a|member|of|the|baptist|societ
he|marri|marv|young|by|whom|he|had|nine|son|four|of|whom|srirviv
him|the|name|of|those|were|jame|joseph|mason|and|johnson|harri
isaac|took|an|activ|part|in|the|revolut|belong|to|the|mihtia|was|at
the|battl|of|ouinton|s|bridg|when|the|american|were|pursu|by|the
english|soldie7|and|to|save|his|life|he|swam|alloway|s|creek|although|he
was|shot|at|sever|time|he|escap|free|of|wound|he|die|the|ffth|o
pril|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|of|tvphus|fever|which|was|then|rage|in|this|counti|to|a|fear
extent|his|age|was|about|sixtyf|year|jame|the|son|of|isaac|was
twice|marri|and|isaac|was|bv|his|first|wife|and|rachel|and|charlott|were
bv|his|second|wife|rachel|marri|malachiah|jarmin|and|had|one|daughter
catherin|jarmin|who|subsequ|marri|jonathan|richmond|charlott
marri|archer|a|son|of|caleb|stackhous|and|they|had|three|children
william|jame|and|mari|caleb|stackhous|was|a|descend|of|thoma
stackhous|the|emigr|and|provinci|counselor|of|penn
isaac|a|son|of|jame|harri|had|three|wive|his|first|wife|was|sarah
a|daughter|of|elijah|fogg|she|die|young|leav|one|daughter|who
marri|jame|robinson|isaac|s|second|wife|was|martha|abbott|the|widow
of|william|abbott|her|maiden|name|was|reev|and|she|was|of|cumber
land|counti|by|that|marriag|there|were|three|children|sarah|william
and|martha|harri|sarah|a|daughter|of|isaac|and|martha|harri|marri
tob|stretch|jr|she|is|deceas|leav|five|children|rosanna|harri
anna|elizabeth|and|sarah|stretch|her|loss|to|her|famili|was|great|as
she|was|an|industri|and|frugal|wife|a|kind|and|affection|mother|and
was|general|respect|by|those|who|knew|her|illiam|a|son|of|isaac
2i6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|martha|harri|resid|on|the|homestead|of|his|father|he|marri
anni|the|daughter|of|eno|p|enghsh|they|have|sever|children|bertha
marri|john|powel|and|has|two|children|elizabeth|and|jeremiah
martha|a|daughter|of|isaac|marri|hile|a|son|of|sile|baker|and|they
have|children|isaac|s|third|wife|is|sarah|a|daughter|of|john|finley|no
issu|jame|the|father|of|isaac|die|in|the|eightythird|year|of|his|age
joseph|the|son|of|isaac|and|mari|y|harri|was|twice|marri|his|first
wife|was|hannah|sheppard|by|whom|he|had|one|daughter|hannah|harri
she|marri|mark|stretch|and|had|sever|children|anania|john|georg
and|william|stretch|there|was|one|daughter|mark|and|his|wife|are|de
ceas|joseph|harri|s|second|wife|was|the|widow|of|elijah|fogg|they
had|one|daughter|kerenhappuch|harri|she|subsequ|marri|rich
ard|moor|and|they|had|one|son|name|david|moor|joseph|harri|die
may|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|age|seventynin|year|mason|a|son|of|isaac|and|mari|y
harri|marri|sarah|king|they|remov|to|the|state|of|ohio|maini|year
ago|and|it|has|been|said|he|die|wealthi|leav|a|larg|famili|of|children
johnson|the|youngest|son|of|isaac|and|mari|y|harri|marri|and|resid
on|the|homestead|of|his|father
jacob|the|third|son|of|abraham|harri|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-one|anti|was|a
weaver|by|trade|and|a|baptist|by|religi|profess|he|was|twice|marri
he|was|at|the|battl|of|ouinton|s|bridg|was|sever|wound|and|was
left|on|the|field|by|the|enemi|for|dead|after|great|suffer|he|recov
and|live|to|old|age|he|and|his|famili|went|to|the|state|of|ohio|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seven
his|children|s|name|were|elisha|isaac|sarah|hannah|so|hia|achsah|and
rebecca|harri
john|the|fourth|son|of|abraham|and|esther|lang|harri|was|born
octob|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|his|life|was|an|event|one|he|was|about|twentytwo
year|old|when|the|war|of|the|revolut|connnenc|he|aent|first|in
one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|in|the|militia|of|fli|camp|as|it|was|then|call|for|six|month
was|in|the|armi|under|washington|which|assembl|at|new|york|for|the
defens|of|that|citi|and|was|also|in|the|battl|of|long|island|the|27th|of
august|of|that|year|that|fall|or|winter|he|was|sick|at|somerset|in|this
state|and|came|home|when|his|six|month|were|out|the|next|spring|he
enlist|in|the|regular|armi|for|seven|year|or|dure|the|war|as|a|bombadi
in|the|pennsylvania|artilleri|continent|line|also|drum|major|and|join
the|main|armi|under|washington|and|was|in|the|battl|of|the|brandywin
at|germantown|and|at|valley|forg|while|the|british|armi|had|comfort
quarter|at|philadelphia|in|the|summer|of|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|he|went|with|general|sulli
van|on|an|expedit|against|the|indian|up|the|susquehanna|vfter|that
he|was|sent|with|a|part|of|the|armi|to|pittsburg|then|call|fort|pitt|w|here
congression|district|of|new|fersey|two hundred and seventeen
he|continu|dure|tlie|remaind|of|the|war|hugh|blackwood|accom
pani|him|through|tlie|fli|camp|and|regular|armi|and|they|return
home|togeth
follow|is|in|substanc|his|account|of|his|experi|in|armi|life
at|the|battl|of|germantown|we|plant|our|cannon|at|the|gate|befor
chew|s|hous|by|the|stone|gatepost|which|are|there|now|just|insid
the|gate|lay|six|british|grenadi|dead|we|were|order|to|fire|grapeshot
after|we|fire|awhil|it|seem|as|if|we|were|not|make|as|much|impress
as|we|ought|and|as|the|fog|was|so|thick|we|could|not|see|veri|much|one|of
our|ofific|rode|up|to|the|hous|where|the|british|were|and|when|he|came
back|he|said|boy|use|cannon|ball|it|is|a|stone|hous|but|the|fog|lift
pretti|soon|and|as|there|were|but|a|few|of|us|we|had|to|retreat|if|we|had
knownitwasa|stone|hous|when|we|first|commenc|we|would|have|knock
it|to|piec|like|the|old|shot|show|to|this|day|the|shutter|are|patch
and|one|shot|went|through|it|to|the|kitchen
i|was|in|a|great|mani|skirmish|around|philadelphia|while|the|british
had|it|in|possess|as|they|would|send|out|forag|parti|around|it|the
american|would|send|out|parti|to|captur|them|it|was|late|in|the|fall|and
we|often|had|the|schuylkil|river|to|wade|the|offic|would|order|us|to
hold|up|our|ammunit|to|keep|it|dri|as|i|belong|to|the|artilleri|i
general|rode|over|on|my|gun|one|of|those|night|i|thought|my
time|was|about|to|come|the|english|heard|of|our|be|after|them
and|threw|up|intrench|across|a|road|in|the|wood|and|as|they|had
cannon|it|was|expect|of|cours|that|they|would|plant|some|to|sweep|the
road|and|as|my|gun|came|in|the|road|as|we|march|up|in|order|of|battl
expect|them|to|fire|i|could|see|their|camp|fire|blaze|high|but|the
american|kept|march|up|march|up|but|they|did|not|open|their|bat
teri|at|last|an|offic|rode|up|and|look|over|the|breastwork|when|he
came|back|he|said|damn|them|they|have|given|up|the|bag|have|left|eeri
thing|there|to|deceiv|us|even|their|supper|cook|but|the|offic|would
not|let|us|eat|it|hungri|as|we|were|for|fear|of|poison
on|the|nth|of|septemb|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|the|battl|of|brandywin|was|fought
i|was|in|that|and|winter|at|valley|forg|seventeen thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|with|washington|was
starv|and|frozen|a|soldier|s|life|was|wors|than|a|dog|s|the|say|is
a|dog|s|life|is|hunger|and|eas|a|soldier|s|was|hunger|and|hardship
it|is|thought|that|mr|haiti|was|also|in|the|battl|of|monmouth|the
28th|day|of|june|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|soldier|in|both|armi|die|from|heat|and|want
of|water|they|fare|bad|also|for|cloth|their|shirt|would|be|all|gone
except|wristband|and|collar|hors|beef|and|it|was|often|spoil|they
2i8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
had|for|meal|resum|the|narrat|of|mr|harri|within|quotat
point|we|proceed
in|the|fall|of|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|i|was|with|general|sullivan|up|the|susquehanna|to
destroy|the|indian|corn|as|thev|were|partlv|civil|and|farm|a|good
bit|it|was|thought|that|they|had|an|extra|amount|plant|to|feed|burgoyn|s
armi|that|was|expect|to|come|from|canada|down|that|way|and|also|to
retali|for|the|massacr|of|wyom|but|general|gate|defeat|bur
goyn|at|saratoga|new|york|it|was|splendid|corn|aliout|forward|enough
for|roast|or|boil|when|we|cut|it|up|and|set|fire|to|their|wigwam|it
ruin|them|and|they|never|recov|from|the|blow
a|part|of|the|armi|i|among|them|was|sent|across|the|mountain|to
fort|pitt|now|pittsburg|what|rout|we|went|i|can|not|tell|there|was
not|even|a|wagon|road|further|than|gettysburg|we|got|our|suppli|from
there|by|packmul|as|we|would|start|a|train|when|the|path|was|report
clear|of|indian|they|could|run|almost|equal|to|a|deer|or|lie|flat|as|a|rabbit
and|hide|where|there|was|almost|noth|i|did|not|admir|the|indian
charact|they|would|lie|and|steal|anyth|they|could|lay|their|hand|on
e|had|a|great|mani|skirmish|with|them|but|not|much|we|could|call|a
battl|their|warfar|was|to|get|behind|tree|and|shoot|from|cover|in|one
of|our|skirmish|i|was|not|feel|veri|good|and|an|irishman|said|to|me
braiz|up|harri|this|day|a|golden|chain|or|a|wooden|leg|i|told|him|i
thought|the|prospect|for|a|golden|chain|was|not|veri|bright|fight|indian
when|they|could|carri|all|they|had|on|their|l|ack|and|run|with|it
i|went|with|general|sullivan|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|west|of|the|allegliani
mountain|i|neer|got|back|or|heard|from|home|dure|the|war|but|was
in|the|neighborhood|of|pittsburg|most|of|the|time|we|made|an|expedit
down|the|ohio|river|that|was|the|hardest|campaign|of|all|it|was|not|veri
much|work|to|go|down|with|the|current|as|we|were|in|a|flatboat|of|some
kind|with|oar|to|row|it|it|was|report|that|a|settlement|of|white|peopl
was|along|the|river|on|the|ohio|side|at|one|place|perhap|marietta|but|we
did|not|know|certain|we|were|in|two|divis|and|i|was|in|the|first|and
our|ofific|order|everi|one|to|be|readi|with|his|finger|on|the|trigger|and
so|we|drift|by|never|see|ani|one|the|other|parti|careless|think
the|advanc|had|stop|row|up|to|the|shore|and|the|indian|sprang|out
and|kill|and|took|everi|man|e|heard|the|reason|the|indian|did|not
attack|us|they|thought|we|were|onli|a|small|advanc|parti|and|they|felt
abl|for|the|main|bodi|and|expect|our|general|was|in|the|rear|and|as|he
had|a|red|head|they|want|his|scalp|particular|but|they|were|deceiv|in
that|and|if|they|had|attack|us|they|would|have|met|with|a|warm|recep
tion
coxgressiox|district|of|xejv|jersey|two hundred and nineteen
we|went|as|far|as|louisvill|then|call|the|great|fall|but|were|not
there|but|a|short|time|befor|we|were|order|back|to|pittsburg|just|at|the
set|in|of|winter|and|the|river|low|and|full|of|rippl|we|would|have|to
jump|out|and|push|our|boat|over|and|then|get|in|and|row|sit|with|wet
cloth|on|and|almost|freez|as|we|went|down|one|of|our|number|die
and|we|had|no|shovel|to|buri|him|we|place|him|in|a|hollow|in|the|ground
made|by|the|l|low|down|of|a|tree|and|put|what|dirt|we|could|on|him|but
as|we|came|liack|we|saw|that|the|wolv|had|dug|him|out|and|pick|his
bone
we|would|stay|out|in|the|middl|of|the|river|all|day|pull|up|till|to
ward|night|we|would|work|in|shore|and|land|a|parti|to|scour|the|wood|for
indian|and|post|our|sentinel|around|and|camp|for|the|night|the|wolv
would|come|up|around|the|sentinel|and|howl|and|appear|as|if|not|farther|off
than|the|length|of|our|gun|but|we|dare|not|shoot|them|it|would|be|giv
ing|a|fals|alarm|we|also|had|anoth|thing|to|contend|with|wors|than
ani|i|have|mention|hunger|we|came|veri|near|starv|there|was
a|settlement|at|wheel|west|virginia|and|a|temporari|mill|that|would
grind|corn|which|was|run|by|man|power|so|we|made|great|calcul
when|we|reach|there|but|pretti|soon|after|we|got|to|work|the|soldier
got|hold|of|some|whiski|and|got|so|drunk|that|they|could|not|work|got
noth|done|and|we|came|nearer|starv|than|befor
pittsljurg|was|a|hundr|mile|yet|befor|us|we|were|work|up|the
ohio|in|one|cano|was|a|sick|irishman|and|the|current|catch|and|upset
it|e|lament|his|fate|suppos|he|was|drown|of|cours|init|when
we|came|to|turn|up|the|cano|there|he|was|in|it|not|ani|the|wors|onli
wet|some|one|ask|him|if|he|could|take|a|littl|whiski|he|said|by|the
lord|tri|me
dure|the|winter|of|seventeen thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|at|valley|forg|we|were|so|bad|off|for
cloth|one|could|track|the|soldier|over|the|frozen|ground|by|the|blood
from|their|bare|feet|and|no|blanket|would|lie|down|around|our|camp|fire
to|sleep|and|our|hair|would|freez|fast|to|the|ground
we|final|arrivetl|at|pittsburg|a|poor|place|then|not|even|a|frame
hous|in|it|there|was|a|line|of|soldier|barrack|or|framework|there
were|sever|log|hous|with|a|quarter|of|an|acr|of|ground|attach|which
form|the|citv|at|that|time|there|was|no|road|across|the|mountain|and
from|gettysburg|to|pittsburg|everyth|was|carri|by|packmul|not
much|there|but|whiski|and|it|would|take|a|month|s|wage|to|iniy|a|gill
with|the|money|we|were|paid|with|about|eighti|dollar|good|money|would
buy|a|quarter|of|an|acr|of|ground|with|a|log|hous|on|it|then|but|i|would|not
two hundred and twenty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
have|had|one|even|for|a|gift|if|i|had|to|stay|there|it|was|siic|a|poor|place
and|i|thought|alway|would|be
mr|harri|was|discharg|at|that|place|on|the|30th|of|septemb|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three
william|irv|brigadi|general|in|command|his|discharg|is|still|in|the
famili|his|pay|for|the|last|two|or|three|year|was|the|continent|money
that|as|issu|by|congress|he|was|in|seven|generaj|battl|includ
that|at|flatbush|long|island|august|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|besid|mani|skirmish
but|was|never|wound|was|onc|howev|knock|down|by|a|spent|ball
he|came|home|poor|and|for|a|year|or|two|was|in|veri|oor|health|his|con
stitut|much|impair|by|exposur|while|in|the|anu|be|afflict
with|chill|and|fever|in|after|life|his|companv|was|much|sought|and|he
have|a|retent|memori|would|interest|his|friend|by|relat|incid
and|occurr|he|had|experienc|while|in|the|armi
in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|he|marri|lydia|a|daughter|of|captain|william|smith|of|the
militia|in|the|battl|of|quinton|s|bridg|who|had|some|of|his|hair|shot|awa
from|the|back|part|of|his|head|a|bullet|graze|his|loin|and|his|hors|re
ceiv|two|bullet|in|him|yet|he|carri|his|rider|safe|over|the|bridg|and
then|fell|dead|under|him|mr|harri|s|wife|lydia|was|more|than|ten|year
younger|than|himself|he|bought|round|island|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|of|joshua|eaton
the|island|contain|thirti|acr|of|upland|likewis|a|consider|quantiti
of|salt|marsh|and|was|about|two|mile|south|of|alloway|s|creek|neck|he
live|there|nine|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and four|he|purchas|raggedisland|of|elijah|fogg
it|be|a|short|distanc|from|round|island|he|move|to|the|former|and
remain|there|till|his|death|which|event|took|place|iarch|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|with
the|typhus|fever
the|follow|is|a|list|of|his|children|stretch|harri|born|februari|twenty-six
one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|die|octob|two|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|matilda|harri|born|januari|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|die
februari|eleven|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|stretch|harri|born|januari|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-eight|die|august|ten
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|sarah|harri|born|decemb|thirty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|die|februari|two|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|ben
jamin|harri|born|august|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|die|april|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|peter|harri|born
june|four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|die|januari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|lydia|harri|born|octob|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight
die|decemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|elizabeth|harri|born|novemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred|die
juli|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|margaret|harri|born|june|i|one thousand, eight hundred and three|die|about|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|or|six
clarissa|harri|born|septemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and five|die|septemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|beulah
harri|born|june|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|die|may|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen
peter|harri|in|the|spike|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|had|a|sever|attack|of|typhus|feer
and|did|not|entir|recov|from|it|and|in|the|fall|went|to|camp|three
month|in|the|militia|at|billingsport|below|red|bank|where|sleep|in
tent|on|the|ground|and|be|expos|to|a|heavi|rain|on|the|march|from
there|down|to|salem|he|contract|a|heavv|cold|which|again|brought|on
congressioa|district|of|afjv|jersey|two hundred and twenty-one
the|typhus|fever|of|which|he|soon|die|lydia|harri|never|marri|ehza
beth|harri|marri|nathaniel|stretch|his|second|wife|some|time|after|she
was|forti|year|old|and|had|no|children|margaret|harri|marri|thoma
b|sayr|and|die|young|leav|a|daughter|which|soon|follow|her
clarissa|harri|was|born|septemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and five|she|was|next|to|the
youngest|of|john|and|lydia|smith|harri|s|children|in|her|twentysecond
year|she|marri|david|s|ellett|march|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|he|lack|near|two
month|of|be|twentyon|year|old|he|was|born|april|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and six|of|an
irish|father|jame|e|elliott|or|ellott|from|tipperari|ireland|and|of|a
german|mother|catherin|sickler|zigler|for|seven|year|they|live|near
salem|new|jersey|and|to|them|were|born|four|children|they|move|to
ohio|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|set|out|in|a|twohors|wagon|on|march|thirty-one|and|make|the
journey|in|two|week|william|kelti|and|john|mink|and|their|famili|in
wagon|also|travel|with|them|david|ellett|bought|his|farm|at|bunker
hill|goshen|township|may|five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|the|place|is|now|in|mahon|counti
it|was|then|includ|in|columbiana|counti|on|the|old|farm|which|he|call
the|capitol|david|and|clarissa|ellett|remain|until|their|death|both|die
within|the|same|year|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|david|on|the|3d|of|februari|and|clarissa|on|the
13th|of|septemb|they|lie|buri|in|the|bunker|hill|cemeteri|on|the
southeast|corner|of|the|farm
david|and|clarissa|ellett|rais|twelv|children|four|of|whom|were|bom
in|new|jersey|jame|born|novemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|marri|and|live|at|rip
pey|boon|counti|iowa|margaret|h|born|april|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|marri|sila
card|their|children|lizzi|and|rinda|both|marri|and|have|issu
emili|jenkin|bom|septemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|marri|charl|jenkin|their
children|were|walter|and|harriet|walter|marri|and|had|issu|and|harriet
is|now|dead|emili|die|may|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|and|was|buri|at|quaker|hill|beloit
ohio|john|h|born|juli|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|marri|elmira|card|and|their|children
emil|rosa|elmer|and|zoe|are|all|marri|and|have|issu|john|and|his
wife|live|near|beloit|ohio|catherin|born|februari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|and|marri
william|blackburn|sante|on|the|26th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|their|children|are
louella|b|bom|novemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|and|marri|albert|phillip|octob
nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|their|children|are|homer|wilmer|edna|jessi|and|wendel|phil
lip|clarissa|harri|sante|was|born|novemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|was|marri
to|albert|f|ellett|octob|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|their|children|are|lucius|glen
and|oliv|ellett|mari|e|sante|was|bom|august|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|marri|wilmer
stanley|octob|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|and|their|children|are|elsi|guy|and|hazel|harri
ellett|sante|was|born|octob|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|three|month|after|his|uncl|s|death
harri|ellett|for|whom|he|was|name|he|graduat|at|the|universitv|of
pennsylvania|and|is|now|a|resid|physician|of|chicago|illinoi|a|rise
two hundred and twenty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
young|man|he|was|marri|the|28th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|to|grace|brown
the|daughter|of|judg|richard|brown|who|came|from|england|to|canfield
ohio|and|marri|thalia|newton|harri|and|grace|sante|have|one
daughter|martha|boyl|she|was|born|august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|loyd|ernest
was|born|februari|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|is|a|fine|musician|catherin|sante|die|janu
ari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|was|buri|at|north|benton|ohio|sarah|ellett|was|born
march|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|marri|william|king|and|their|children|are|judson
wendel|catherin|rosa|howard|and|lizzi|sarah|ellett|king|die|in
june|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|was|buri|besid|her|parent|at|bunker|hill|david|jr
was|liorn|april|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|marri|and|had|issu|and|live|at|rippey|iowa
stretch|harri|ellett|was|born|octol|er|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|follow|his
brother|jame|and|david|into|the|armi|he|was|a|lieuten|in|compani
c|sixth|ohio|cavalri|was|wound|at|st|mari|s|church|irginia|june
twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|die|on|the|15th|of|the|follow|month|at|alexandria|vir
ginia|from|a|wound|receiv|in|the|armi|josiah|was|born|april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two
marri|and|has|issu|and|live|in|boon|counti|iowa|calvin|was|born
march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|marri|and|has|issu|and|live|at|rippey|iowa|charl
elmer|born|decemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|marri|celestia|cook|and|their|children
are|clarissa|harri|and|homer|the|latter|is|marri|and|live|in|allianc
ohio|lydia|letitia|the|youngest|child|of|david|s|anil|clarissa|h|ellett
born|may|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|marrietl|john|trotter|their|children|are|clarissa
h|lydia|and|jame|earl|trotter|and|they|live|in|salem|ohio
stretch|harri|a|son|of|john|and|lydia|harri|was|born|the|25th|day|of
januari|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-eight|marri|rebecca|pagett|march|two|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|resid|on
round|island|which|he|inherit|from|his|father|they|had|four|children
all|born|on|the|island|about|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|he|purchas|a|farm|on|allo
way|s|creek|neck|which|was|former|known|as|the|jame|chambless|farm
he|jame|chambless|was|the|grandfath|of|jame|smith|of|salem
stretch|harri|move|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|and|commenc|to|improv|the|land|by
appli|wood|ash|which|made|it|produc|admir|and|in|a|few|year
he|appli|lime|to|a|great|advantag|some|year|later|he|purchas|the
daniel|stretch|farm|which|was|also|much|reduc|it|was|one|of|the|first
settl|farm|in|auoway|s|creek|township|be|part|of|the|christoph
white|allot|of|one|thousand|acr|soon|after|stretch|purchas|the
farm|he|remov|the|old|mansion|iniilt|by|christoph|hite|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety
stretch|harri|was|a|frugal|and|industri|man|notwithstand|his|loe
of|gain|he|had|a|sympathet|natur|and|was|often|found|by|the|bedsid|of
his|afiflict|neighbor|to|assist|and|aid|them|as|much|as|possilil|at|the
time|of|his|death|he|had|properti|valu|at|fifteen|thousand|dollar|the
land|estat|was|direct|by|will|to|be|ecpial|divid|between|his|two
c0xgressi0x4l|district|of|xejv|jersey|twenty-two
son|hiram|and|amo|harri|his|two|grandchildren|hannah|and|john
fogg|to|have|one|thousand|each|stretch|harri|commenc|life|in|a|small
way|on|round|island|he|made|most|of|his|clear|money|by|keep|a|fisheri
in|the|spring|of|the|year|on|the|river|shore|near|where|he|resid|afterward
buy|old|and|wornout|land|at|a|low|price|and|improv|them
his|children|were|ann|born|june|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|john|born|august|ten
one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|die|juli|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|hiram|born|april|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|die|march|thirteen|i8qi
and|amo|was|born|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|ann|harri|marri|luke|s|fogg|a
son|of|joseph|and|hannah|hover|fogg|luke|die|septemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he
was|engag|in|the|grain|busi|at|hancock|s|bridg|for|sever|year|in
earlier|life|he|was|an|activ|politician|and|at|one|time|was|an|acknowledg
leader|of|the|republican|parti|in|that|township|luke|fogg|had|two|chil
dren|hannah|h|fogg|and|john|h|fogg|hannah|marri|ephraim|c
smith|a|son|of|peter|and|elizabeth|ellett|smith|and|have|four|children
live|luke|f|smith|born|septemb|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|is|engag|in|the|canning
busi|at|elmer|and|alloway|anni|rebecca|bom|februari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine
marri|joseph|s|buzbi|a|farmer|in|alannington|and|they|have|two|chil
dren|luke|and|hannah|j|warren|smith|born|april|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|marri
margaret|austin|a|daughter|of|illiam|and|mari|ann|austin|they|have
two|children|frank|and|ephraim|frank|p|smith|was|born|march|nineteen
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|phoeb|f|smith|june|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|and|john|f|smith|decemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three
frank|and|phoeb|die|young
john|h|fogg|enlist|as|a|privat|under|captain|howard|bassett|in
compani|a|twentyfourth|regiment|of|new|jersey|volunt|the|30th
of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|to|serv|nine|month|and|was|discharg|from|servic|at
bever|new|jersey|the|29th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|by|reason|of|expir|of
servic|he|die|februari|two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four
hiram|harri|marri|hannah|smith|a|daughter|of|andrew|and|han
nah|stretch|smith|and|had|two|children|david|harri|and|catherin|c
harri|david|marri|susan|patrick|a|daughter|of|ephraim|and|margaret
patrick|and|had|the|follow|children|andrew|s|hiram|elsi|frank
sauie|georg|linda|hannah|e|chester|and|viola|harri|catherin|c
harri|marri|d|w|c|taylor|and|had|one|daughter|hannah|and|one|son
that|die|in|infanc|hannah|marri|henri|a|son|of|robert|and|julia|john
son|amo|harri|marri|catherin|smith|a|daughter|of|andrew|and|han
nah|stretch|smith|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|by|whom|he|had|four|children|rebecca
born|april|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|hannah|j|born|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|die|septemb
twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|stretch|born|august|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|one|that|die|in|infanc|re
becca|marri|charl|e|baker|and|had|three|children|a|harri|who|die
in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|in|his|twentysecond|year|charl|e|jr|and|walter|baker
two hundred and twenty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
stretch|harri|marri|elizabeth|baker|a|daughter|of|powel|and|ann
baker|and|has|three|children|margaret|catherin|and|amo|amo|har
ris|and|sarah|bradway|a|daughter|of|william|and|mari|bradway|were|mar
rie|march|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|they|have|had|five|children|catherin|s|born|june
four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|sarah|marion|june|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|margaret|c|born|august|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three
die|septemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|a|howard|harri|born|januari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|mari
l|harri|born|august|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|sarah|marion|marri|william|johnson
of|penn|s|neck|son|of|jame|s|and|sarah|lindsey|johnson|march|twenty-five
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|have|three|children|live|jame|r|johnson|born|may|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
josephin|june|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|marguerit|h|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|die|juli
sixteen|follow|and|howard|h|johnson|born|april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|a|howard
harri|marri|bertha|vaughan|a|daughter|of|john|and|eliza|vaughan|of
philadelphia|novemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|have|two|children|ellen|b|born
august|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|john|v|januari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|mari|l|harri|and|robert
n|vanneman|a|son|of|edwin|and|josephin|newel|vanneman|were|mar
rie|at|philadelphia|by|mayor|filter|januari|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|have|three|chil
dren|marion|j|born|decemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|margaret|h|march|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
and|william|b|may|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|robert|n|vanneman|was|elect|sheriff|of
salem|counti|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
stretch|harri|die|august|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|his|wife|surviv|him|eight|year
in|the|deceas|of|stretch|harri|the|section|of|the|counti|in|which|he|re
side|has|lost|an|exemplari|citizen|truli|an|honest|trueheart|man|has
gone|down|to|the|tomb|full|of|year|and|full|of|honor|may|the|green|sod
rest|light|upon|his|breast|and|the|recollect|of|his|sterl|worth|surviv
the|mausoleimi|of|king|charl|p|smith|editor|of|the|salem|standard
benjamin|harri|was|born|august|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|about|two|mile|south|of
ouinton|near|cooper|s|branch|hen|three|year|of|age|his|parent|move
to|round|island|where|tliev|continu|to|resid|until|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|then|move|to
philadelphia|for|two|and|onehalf|year|and|return|bought|a|farm|in|allo
way|s|creek|neck|wdier|he|live|until|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|he|then|bought|a|farm|at
harmersvill|and|live|on|it|until|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|wdien|he|retir|from|activ|busi
to|a|hous|in|the|villag|where|he|live|until|his|death|april|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he
marri|martha|english|who|was|born|in|novemb|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight
in|her|seventyfifth|year|their|two|children|peter|and|letitia|were|born|on
rag|island|and|the|third|son|quinton|parker|was|born|on|alloway|s
creek|neck|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|his|farm|contain|one|hundr|and|fifti
acr|of|land|one|hundr|cultiv|and|the|balanc|woodland|and|meadow
in|polit|he|was|a|whig|later|a|republican|and|alway|kept|abreast|of|the
time|on|all|import|topic|he|also|held|mani|town|ofific|and|was|uni
versal|like|and|respect
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and twenty-five
peter|was|born|januari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|marri|mari|carll|their|children
were|lydia|who|marri|jame|butcher|exsen|of|salem|counti|han
nah|ann|who|marri|winfield|patrick|a|farmer|of|lower|alloway|s|creek
township|by|whom|she|had|two|children|william|s|and|mari|and|ann
elizabeth|who|marri|jame|v|carll|a|farmer|of|the|same|township|their
children|were|frank|ralph|and|harri|who|die|in|infanc|benjamin|e
harri|marri|rose|carll|and|their|children|were|louella|carll|and|chris
tine|he|is|a|promin|merchant|of|canton|letitia|was|born|januari|fifteen
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|and|was|marri|to|thoma|a|maskel|a|miller|in|her|nativ|township
by|whom|she|had|three|children|adelaid|now|mrs|reev|stretch|who|has
three|children|florenc|thoma|and|joseph|annabel|maskel|who|die
at|the|age|of|four|year|and|mari|who|also|die|in|childhood
quinton|p|harri|was|born|in|lower|alloway|s|creek|attend|the
district|school|and|later|went|to|board|school|in|wilmington|delawar
where|he|remain|until|he|was|twenti|year|of|age|the|follow|three
year|he|work|for|his|father|at|the|expir|of|that|time|he|engag
in|farm|for|himself|on|his|father|s|farm|and|at|his|death|hire|the|prop
ertv|where|he|resid|for|more|than|forti|year|the|improv|on|the
place|were|modern|and|conveni|and|here|he|lie|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|when|he
move|to|salem|and|purchas|his|present|resid|which|has|ijeen|re
model|and|improv|make|it|one|of|the|most|desir|properti|in
the|citi|he|was|marri|to|elizabeth|t|powel|a|daughter|of|john|and
rebecca|powel|who|was|born|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|die|decemb|eighteen
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|leav|one|daughter|elizabeth|born|octob|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and
was|a|teacher|she|marri|richard|m|acton|a|farmer|now|resid
ing|in|salem|on|januari|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|marri|mari|a|daughter|of|william
and|mari|shourd|bradway|a|farmer|in|the|same|township|they|had|five
children|luci|born|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|graduat|at|millersvill|normal
school|and|taught|for|some|time|prior|to|marri|l|clinton|arnold|an|at
torney|of|lancast|pennsylvania|martha|born|august|four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|die|in
childhood|ellen|born|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|marri|dr|w|scott|smith|a
physician|of|salem|she|is|a|graduat|of|the|woman|s|colleg|of|philadelphia
and|a|practic|physician|nf|salem|render|her|husband|valuabl|aid|in|his
work|she|is|a|member|of|the|daughter|of|the|revolut|and|quinton|p
jr|was|born|juli|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|receiv|his|educ|in|the|same|school|and|is|at
present|at|the|stanford|uniers|near|san|francisco|california|intargaret
born|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|also|graduat|at|millersvill
mr|harri|is|a|strong|support|of|educ|and|has|given|his|children
a|liber|start|in|that|direct|while|serv|as|school|director|he|alway
work|for|the|imi|roement|of|the|school|and|his|effort|in|this|direct
two hundred and twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
result|in|good|he|enjoy|the|full|confid|and|respect|of|the|peopl
and|has|been|elect|to|various|town|offic|serv|as|counti|treasur
from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|has|been|promin|identifi|with|the|republican
of|this|counti|and|give|excel|reason|for|his|view|he|has|been|a|di
rector|of|the|farmer|mutual|fire|insur|compani|of|salem|counti
for|a|period|of|twenti|year|and|when|the|citi|nation|bank|was|organ
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|elect|a|director|of|that|institut|also
permena|the|youngest|of|the|six|boy|marri|margaret|bryant|and
they|liad|six|children|he|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|of|yellow|fever|about|the|time|it|was
so|bad|in|philadelphia|his|children|s|name|were|josiah|lydia|smith
mari|ann|and|permena|josiah|the|oldest|die|about|the|age|of|eighteen
lydia|marri|jame|sayr|and|die|soon|leav|one|son|abbot|sayr
who|marri|and|had|one|son|nebraska|sayr|smith|is|still|live|but|never
marri|mari|marri|john|finlaw|a|man|much|older|than|herself|and|he
live|but|a|few|year|she|was|then|a|widow|for|twentyf|year|ann|mar
rie|david|s|english|in|earli|life|and|had|a|son|eno|p|english|and|die
soon|after|his|second|wife|was|sarah|ann|nelson|the|onli|child|of|anthoni
nelson|their|children|were|mari|anthoni|joseph|southard|timothi
jael|jael|marri|a|man|from|delawar|by|the|name|of|van|gezel|mari
marri|georg|stretch|and|her|second|husband|was|samuel|w|miller|ex
sherifif|anthoni|marri|mari|smith|a|daughter|of|william|and|rebecca
finlaw|smith|anoth|daughter|marri|jame|robinson|from|lower
creek|david|s|english|was|onc|elect|sherifif|of|salem|counti|par
mena|die|about|eighteen|near|the|time|of|his|sister|lydia|s|death
sophia|marri|a|man|name|william|paulin|by|whom|she|had|sever
children|whose|name|were|joel|nichola|ami|mari|and|rachel|joel
it|is|thought|live|in|philadelphia|a|tailor|by|trade|nichola|die
about|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|mari|never|marri|ami|marri|mark|balleng|in|earli
life|and|had|one|or|two|children|he|went|to|sea|and|die|in|havana
rachel|marri|jacob|woodruff|in|earli|life|and|becam|the|mother|of|a
larg|famili|they|move|to|ohio|about|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|tlieir|son|jame|learn
the|blacksmith|s|trade|and|later|becam|interest|in|an|iron|foundri|and|ac
quir|a|fortun|no|account|of|rachel|s|other|children|is|at|hand
nichola|harri|a|son|of|abraham|and|esther|langley|born|april|twenty-six
one thousand, seven hundred and sixty|was|a|baptist|by|religi|profess|he|marri|sarah|sheppard|a
sister|of|captain|charlton|sheppard|first|lieuten|in|captain|henri
spark|s|compani|of|the|second|battalion|of|salem|captain|dito|wound
at|hancock|s|bridg|new|jersey|march|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|they|had|eight|son|and
one|daughter|hannah|who|marri|and|die|young|sheppard|was|name
after|his|mother|s|familv|he|was|marri|voung|to|marv|arner|bv|whom
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|two hundred and twenty-seven
he|had|two|son|sila|and|sheppard|and|he|would|at|the|age|of|twentyf
aljraham|the|second|son|marri|mari|ann|steel|who|soon|die|leav
but|one|son|he|afterward|marri|a|girl|name|callahan|by|whom|he|had
two|or|three|children|bilbi|remain|singl|parmena|marri|rebecca
ayer|by|whom|he|had|three|son|josiah|thoma|and|david|the|latter
still|live|josiah|marri|mari|finlaw|of|elsinboro|and|their
children|are|rebecca|illiam|louisa|blanch|and|harri|blanch
and|harri|still|live|harri|is|in|the|philippin|thoma|had
two|wive|three|children|by|his|first|wife|theodor|william
and|david|of|whom|two|are|lix|daid|is|dead|david|marri
sarah|sayr|had|eight|children|anna|joseph|aaron|carri|freder
you|s|grant|mari|and|harriet|anna|joseph|and|iari|live|parmena|s
second|wife|was|harriet|nicholson|and|his|third|wife|anni|s|free|from
philadelphia|by|whom|he|had|three|children|georg|harriet|and
chaunci|georg|marri|mari|peterson|and|had|six|children|georg
carri|aaron|thoma|clark|thompson|and|edward|their|son|clark|t
is|in|the|philippin|in|the|unit|state|armi|harriet|marri|john|wal
len|of|penn|s|neck|and|had|three|children|samuel|harriet|p|and|eliza
beth|who|marri|and|die|leav|two|children|edward|and|anna
chaunci|marri|anni|black|of|pennsylvania|and|had|two|son|and|three
daughter|walter|helen|jerrion|sylvia|and|anther|the|last|name|is
deceas|who|left|a|widow|and|one|child|anther|chaunci|harri
nichola|marri|louisa|tressor|and|they|lix|in|philadelphia|and|had
a|larg|famili|of|children|nine|in|number|sarah|marri|edward|moodi
horac|die|in|infanc|edward|franci|moodi|eva|his|wife|no|issu
nichola|harri|moodi|catherin|marri|georg|morri|their|chil
dren|were|harrison|smith|morri|born|octob|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|a|rise|young|man
of|literari|talent|who|has|made|his|mark|in|the|world|is|the|manag|di
rector|of|the|pennsylvania|academi|of|the|fine|art|and|editor|of|lippin
cott|s|month|magazin|he|marri|anna|wharton|a|daughter|of|joseph
and|anna|lever|wharton|and|they|have|one|daughter|catherin|whar
ton|morri|matilda|harri|morri|is|the|treasur|of|the|brown|societi
of|philadelphia|jane|walter|lorri|is|a|student|at|the|academi|of|fine
art|emma|marri|jonathan|stretch|and|their|children|are|louisa|har
ris|stretch|langenberg|her|husband|john|langenberg|john|langen
berger|jr|marshal|hickman|stretch|marion|manashan|stretch|sheppard
harri|carolin|hahn|harri|his|wife|whose|children|are|sheppard|harri
and|marguerit|harri|adalaid|harri|marri|john|smith|dovey|their
children|are|adalaid|hay|dovey|john|smith|dovey|jr|and|hannah|duf
dovev|zacharv|taylor|harri|ella|beck|harri|his|wife|whose|children
two hundred and twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
are|xicliola|harri|and|alari|harri|aaron|live|in|philadelphia|and|for
a|number|of|year|was|in|the|shoe|store|of|villiam|earley|compani|he
never|marri|was|exemplari|in|his|deport|and|generous|to|his|rela
tive|job|went|away|in|earli|life|and|marri|in|new|orlean|worth|sever
thousand|charlton|the|youngest|of|the|famili|went|to|sea|when|young|and
die|in|havana|sarah|bradwav|harri
horac|s|axleer
ith|some|except|which|but|prove|the|rule|it|is|found|that|success
in|an|line|of|human|endeavor|is|the|sure|reward|of|the|man|with|keen|alert
brain|concentr|will|power|and|persist|in|a|cours|of|action|onc|de
cide|upon|how|often|in|review|the|live|of|men|are|we|remind|of
the|wise|say|of|the|great|dramatist|and|poet|there|is|a|tide|in|the|affair
of|men|which|taken|at|the|flood|lead|on|to|fortun|and|the|abil|to
grasp|an|opportun|for|advanc|the|good|judgment|and|foresight
which|measur|the|end|desir|at|the|begin|are|characterist|of|everi
success|man
horac|s|xanleer|a|promin|citizen|of|allowav|salem|count|was
born|in|deerfield|township|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|may|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty
his|parent|isaac|and|susanna|hitchner|anleer|are|repres|in|the
sketch|of|his|brotlier|john|h|anleer|which|appear|elsewher|in|this|vol
ume|our|subject|receiv|a|good|general|educ|in|the|school|of|his
ovn|neighborhood|and|for|a|period|of|four|year|he|was|employ|as|a|clerk
by|smith|rempster|of|alloway|dure|that|time|he|master|the|prin
cipl|of|busi|and|have|care|husband|his|resourc|then|bought
out|his|late|employ|and|for|the|ensu|twentyon|year|success|car
rie|on|a|mercantil|busi|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|dispos|of|his|stock|of
good|and|turn|his|entir|attent|to|the|various|other|enterpris|which
have|gradual|claim|more|and|more|of|his|time|and|energi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he
establish|the|alloway|creameri|buy|the|properti|of|richard|stretch
and|sinc|then|he|has|conduct|a|profit|and|increas|busi|in|butter
and|icecream|in|addit|to|this|he|own|and|oper|a|factori|at|mill
vill|new|jersey|by|strict|attent|to|the|wish|of|his|custom|and|by
the|superior|excel|of|the|product|of|his|factori|he|has|built|up|a|larg
and|remunerati|trade|his|new|process|salem|counti|icecream|find|a
readier|sale|than|ani|other|product|of|the|kind|in|southern|new|jersey|and
larg|shipment|are|made|to|the|various|seasid|resort|upward|of|one
ii
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and twenty-nine
hundr|can|of|milk|are|daili|suppli|to|custom|by|ir|vanleer|s|cream
eri|an|l|he|has|contract|with|creameri|in|delawar|as|well|as|m|this
state|he|attend|to|his|own|iniy|and|sell|and|employ|seven|or|more
person|regular|his|expressag|of|icecream|amount|to|five|thousand
dollar|a|season|and|his|trade|is|grow|at|an|amaz|rate|each|year|he
own|and|oper|the|first|automobil|in|south|jersey|he|is|extrem
activ|and|industri|make|friend|of|his|custom|by|suppli|them
with|wholesom|delici|cream|uniform|excel|and|appet
though|he|use|his|franchis|on|behalf|of|the|i3emocrat|parti|mr|an
leer|is|not|an|aspir|to|public|offic|and|keep|out|of|polit|fratern
he|is|identifi|with|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|his|marriag
to|miss|julia|a|rempster|a|daughter|of|his|former|employ|smith|remp
ster|took|place|februari|nineteen|i874|they|becam|the|parent|of|a|bright
promis|littl|son|chester|who|die|when|four|year|of|age
chrles|p|ativinsox|m|d
dr|charl|p|atkinson|of|palatin|new|jersey|is|a|physician|who
has|retir|from|activ|practic|in|his|profess|and|a|gentleman|who|per
forc|of|his|skill|as|a|physician|as|well|as|his|conduct|as|a|man|has|made
for|himself|a|larg|circl|of|firm|friend|in|and|near|salem|counti
the|doctor|was|born|at|deerfield|cumberland|counti|new|jersey
januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|the|son|of|alibot|atkinson|who|was|born|near|mount
holli|burlington|counti|new|jersey|his|father|our|subject|s|grandfath
was|name|mose|and|his|ijirthplac|was|in|the|same|local|the|famili
came|from|ireland|some|time|in|the|ear|one thousand, six hundred|they|were|of|the|quaker
faith|abbot|atkinson|a|farmer|by|occup|came|to|gloucest|counti
with|his|father|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|remov|to|a|point|near|elmer|and|die|there
in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|at|one|time|he|was|the|judg|of|the|court|and|he|was|ever|activ
in|all|public|matter|he|was|an|ardent|advoc|of|temper|a|well
vers|man|and|faith|in|the|discharg|of|his|duti|and|was|a|member|of
the|methodist|church|he|marri|mari|conov|a|daughter|of|mv|and
mrs|micajah|conov|mr|conov|was|a|nativ|of|absecon|now|at
lantic|citi|new|jersey|but|he|live|the|most|of|his|life|near|woodstown
salem|counti|the|good|wife|depart|this|life|in|one hundred and eighty-seven|of|their|eleven
children|our|subject|is|the|onli|survivor
charl|p|atkinson|attend|the|common|school|the|usual|amount|of
time|and|then|turn|his|attent|to|farm|jnirsuit|but|not|be|m|robust
condit|he|studi|medicin|with|the|aid|of|dr|whittak|of|elmer|new
two hundred and thirty|biograph|histori|op|the|pirst
jersey|and|remain|with|him|for|five|year|upon|the|l|reak|out|of
the|civil|war|he|eiihst|in|the|tliird|pennsylvania|heavi|artilleri|and|did
hospit|duti|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|after|his|return|from|the|armi|he|attend|medi
cal|lectur|in|philadelphia|at|the|eclect|colleg|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|after
which|he|hegan|the|practic|of|his|chosen|profess|at|palatin|continu
until|he|retir|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|on|account|of|ill|his|practic|was|over|an
extend|scope|of|countri|and|was|veri|larg|besid|other|properti|the
doctor|has|a|fine|fiftyacr|farm
april|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|he|was|marri|to|phoel|e|van|meter|the|daughter|of
mr|and|ir|daid|van|meter|by|whom|three|children|were|one|orn|ruth
ann|singl|charl|s|at|home|and|frank|t|in|philadelphia|pennsyl
vania|dr|atkinson|was|eri|activ|in|the|temper|moement|and|was
at|one|time|the|presid|of|the|state|farmer|allianc|among|other
place|of|trust|he|has|held|was|the|chairmanship|of|the|counti|execut
committe|of|his|parti|for|the|period|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|was|a|candi
date|for|the|state|assembl|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|and|for|congress|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|on|the|green
back|ticket|he|was|a|strong|support|of|illiam|jen|bryan|for|presi
dent|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|has|been|identifi|with|the|methodist|church|sinc|he
was|sixteen|year|of|age|and|has|frequent|held|the|offic|of|truste|and
classlead|in|this|organ|the|greatest|obstacl|our|subject|has|had
to|overcom|in|his|career|has|been|the|lack|of|good|health|at|time|unfit
him|for|the|discharg|of|his|duti|as|a|public|and|profession|man|but
notwithstand|this|he|has|by|be|cautious|been|abl|to|do|a|vast
amount|of|such|work|for|which|his|patron|owe|him|their|gratitud|and|in
mani|case|even|their|live
jeremiah|p|delaney
this|gentleman|is|the|superintend|of|the|waterwork|at|sea|isl|citi
and|is|one|of|the|lead|and|repres|men|of|that|town|he|was|born
in|new|york|citi|augist|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|a|son|of|jeremiah|and|eliza|red
delaney|his|father|was|a|nativ|of|counti|cork|ireland|and|dure|his
boyhood|cross|the|atlant|locat|in|new|york|he|becam|a|brick
layer|and|was|employ|on|a|number|of|public|work|in|the|metropoli
includ|the|gas|system|his|polit|support|was|given|the|democraci
he|was|a|member|of|the|mncent|de|paul|societi|of|new|york|and|of|the
cathol|church|dure|the|civil|war|he|manifest|his|loyalti|to|the|union
by|join|the|sixtyninth|new|york|regiment|and|upon|the|battlefield
of|the|south|he|aid|in|the|defens|of|the|star|and|stripe|and|the|becaus
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and thirty-one
it|repres|he|had|six|son|name|john|deceas|jeremiah|paul
william|john|thoma|and|michael|the|father|of|these|children|was|call
to|his|fnal|rest|at|the|age|of|fortytwo|year|and|the|mother|is|still|livmg
at|the|age|of|fiftyeight|year
jeremiah|paul|delanev|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|new|ork
citi|and|philadelphia|pursu|his|studi|until|thirteen|year|of|age|a|hen
a|lad|of|eight|he|remov|to|the|latter|place|and|on|put|asid|his|text
book|he|secur|a|posit|with|the|home|sew|machin|compani
there|he|afterward|learn|the|stonecutt|s|trade|but|not|findmg|it|en
tire|congeni|he|learn|the|plaster|s|trade|and|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|has|been
the|lead|contractor|in|that|line|of|busi|in|sea|isl|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he
erect|the|olymp|hotel|on|landi|avenu|have|accommod|for
forti|guest|he|is|also|deal|in|coal|and|wood|and|in|addit|to|his
hotel|he|own|a|number|of|build|lot|at|this|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|made
superintend|of|the|sea|isl|waterworksand|has|sinc|held|that|posit
discharg|his|duti|with|abil|and|efcienc
mrdelanev|has|been|a|veri|import|factor|in|the|develop|of|sea
isl|citi|and|in|the|promot|of|the|various|interest|and|enterpris|which
contribut|to|it|upbuild|and|progress|he|organ|the|volunt|fire
companv|no|i|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|was|elect|it|chief|and|has|sinc|fill
that|posit|he|was|the|founder|of|the|fire|depart|here|and|built
the|engin|hous|which|it|now|occupi|there|is|now|a|membership|of
eihteen|and|the|depart|is|well|equip|with|hosecart|and|hookand
ladder|apparatus|for|three|year|howev|the|member|of|the|depart
support|it|entirelv|for|five|term|mr|delaney|has|been|a|member|of
the|citv|council|and|at|all|time|gave|his|support|to|the|measur|which|he
believ|would|prove|a|public|benefit|he|is|now|a|longterm|member|of
that|council|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|serv|as|a|doorkeep|in|the|legislatur|for
three|year|he|was|a|notari|public|in|all|these|various|public|offic|he|has
faith|discharg|everi|trust|repos|in|him|and|whether|in|or|out|of
ofiic|he|is|loyal|to|the|welfar|of|his|adopt|countri
mr|delaney|hold|the|paper|that|will|substanti|the|follow|state
ment|concern|his|polit|career
under|presid|cleveland|s|second|administr|he|was|appoint|the
postmast|of|sea|isl|citi|but|after|a|desper|fight|last|about|thirteen
month|he|was|not|confirm|but|had|the|option|from|unit|state|sena
tor|jame|smith|jr|of|allow|the|republican|postmast|to|hold|over|or
he|would|continu|the|fight|and|allow|no|chang|he|said|no|if|i|can|not
make|it|let|some|other|democrat|have|it|but|senat|smith|said|to|him
tf|you|want|to|draw|out|of|the|contest|i|will|fix|you|in|a|better|posit|as
two hundred and thirty-two
biograph|histori|of|the|first
you|rich|deserv|accord|dr|delaney|withdrew|from|the|contest
for|the|postmastership
senat|smith|to|whom|the|cleveland|administr|had|allot|sev
eral|appoint|in|the|philadelphia|mint|had|to|go|to|europ|and|these
appoint|he|left|in|charg|of|william|j|thompson|of|gloucest|with
the|distinct|understand|that|mr|delaney|should|hae|the|first|choic
but|mr|thompson|a|close|person|friend|of|mr|delaney|know|that|he
did|not|care|for|the|job|gave|it|to|a|near|friend|of|his|unawar|to|senat
smith|who|on|his|return|from|europ|was|great|displeas|after|all
the|polit|enemi|of|mr|delaney|of|that|period|are|now|his|person
friend
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|delaney|and|miss|mari|dever
their|union|has|been|bless|with|six|children|mazi|jeremiah|thoma
anna|lizzi|and|jame|the|last|name|is|now|deceas|the|parent
are|member|of|the|cathol|church|and|have|rear|their|famili|in|that
faith|mr|delaney|belong|to|the|class|of|selfmad|men|who|are|the
strength|of|our|american|repulil|their|own|effort|to|gain|a|livelihood
and|work|their|way|upward|to|posit|of|afhuenc|make|them|desir|of
aid|other|who|are|forc|to|travel|the|same|difficult|road|to|success
john|f|nute|co|ipani
john|f|nute|the|senior|partner|in|one|of|the|most|flourish|mercantil
establish|in|franklinvill|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|is|a|nativ
of|lincoln|main|where|he|was|born|june|four|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|his|immedi|anc
tor|were|israel|and|hannah|fish|nute|while|his|grandfath|was|jotham
nute|a|descend|of|jame|nute|who|came|from|england|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-one|and
locat|at|dover|new|hampshir|jotham|nute|was|fill|with|patriot
ardor|and|becam|a|soldier|in|the|rebellion|although|he|was|a|lad|in|his
teen|at|the|time|he|later|becam|one|of|the|most|promin|men|con
nect|with|the|histori|of|new|hampshir|dure|his|lifetim|one|of|his
son|levi|h|was|a|cadet|at|west|point|and|stood|high|in|the|record|of
that|institut|outrank|general|taylor|he|was|a|soldier|in|the|iexi
can|war
israel|nute|learnefl|the|trade|of|carpent|and|follow|that|busi|for
mani|year|in|great|fall|when|fail|health|oblig|him|to|seek|other
employ|and|he|chose|agricultur|pursuit|as|be|at|onc|health
and|remun|he|was|elect|to|the|ofific|of|justic|of|the|peac|a
posit|he|held|for|mani|year|discharg|the|duti|of|the|ofific|in|a
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and thirty-three
manner|which|ehcit|the|commend|of|all|the|maiden|name|of|his
wife|was|hannah|fish|she|was|a|daughter|of|john|fish|and|came|from
the|state|of|vermont|six|children|were|the|fruit|of|this|union|three|of
whom|are|live|name|j|f|our|subject|frederick|e|a|resid|of|lin
coln|main|and|georg|h|of|easton|pennsylvania|the|famili|were
rear|in|conform|to|the|teach|of|the|congreg|church|of
which|israel|xute|was|a|consist|member|and|his|death|w|hich|occur|in
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|was|sincer|regret|by|a|larg|circl|of|friend
j|f|nute|acquir|his|educ|under|difificulti|littl|known|by|the
present|generat|the|school|which|he|attend|was|locat|a|distanc|of
a|mile|and|onehalf|from|the|patern|home|and|was|of|the|most|primit
construct|while|the|book|of|that|time|furnish|even|for|primari|schol
ar|would|be|difficult|for|a|much|older|pupil|of|this|age|so|dens|was|the
concept|of|the|text|howev|the|environ|appear|to|have|had
but|littl|to|do|with|the|develop|of|the|intellect|as|mani|of|the|most
brilliant|men|our|countri|has|ever|known|or|will|know|receiv|their|train
in|the|old|schoolhous|with|puncheon|floor|and|slab|seat|at|the|age|of
seventeen|year|our|subject|enter|the|store|of|his|uncl|jacob|fish|at
lincoln|main|where|he|remain|seven|year|and|develop|an|aptitud
for|the|mercantil|busi|which|induc|him|to|start|in|trade|for|himself
this|he|did|in|the|same|villag|and|soon|had|built|up|a|larg|and|pay
busi|he|continu|this|store|for|twentyon|year|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five
he|move|to|franklinvill|new|jersey|and|with|his|brother|georg|h|built
a|store|where|they|were|in|trade|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|then|georg|a|nute|ad
mit|his|uncl|georg|h|nute|in|the|busi|the|store|was|burn
in|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|the|messr|nute|erect|the|store|build|where
they|now|conduct|their|busi
john|f|nute|was|marri|decemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|to|alari|allen|lovejoy
a|daughter|of|john|lovejoy|who|was|a|resid|of|the|state|of|main|and|a
promin|man|in|his|communiti|four|children|bless|their|marriag
ruel|l|connect|with|his|father|in|busi|and|enumer|in|the|lnite
state|census|of|one thousand, nine hundred|and|a|dealer|in|agricultur|implement|georg
whose|biographi|follow|ira|e|a|resid|of|st|loui|and|mari|a|the
wife|of|edward|sanborn|of|california|mr|nute|has|been|veri|success
in|his|busi|and|owe|wdiat|he|has|achiev|entir|to|his|own|industri
and|enterpris|have|had|to|depend|on|himself|from|boyhood|he|was|ap
point|town|clerk|of|his|nativ|villag|for|year|and|after|locat|here|was
appoint|postmast|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|this|offic|he|has|held|for|sixteen|year|and
so|oblig|and|courteous|has|been|his|treatment|of|the|patron|that|he|was
universallv|like|the|offic|is|now|in|charg|of|his|son|georg|his
two hundred and thirty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
success|has|not|been|unattend|with|difticulti|not|least|among|which
was|the|fire|which|swept|away|all|his|stock|or|the|burglar|who|twice|visit
his|establish|and|rob|him|advers|circumst|did|not|long|de
press|him|and|he|kept|brave|on|and|has|succeed|in|lay|up|consider
properti|he|has|a|fine|farm|of|one|hundr|and|thirti|acr|which|he|cul
tivat|and|from|which|he|deriv|both|profit|and|pleasur|he|is|a|promi
nent|member|of|the|iason|fratern|and|also|of|the|presbyterian|church
at|clayton|in|which|he|is|a|zealous|worker|and|an|elder|he|has|been|the
superintend|of|the|sundayschool|here|for|sever|ear|and|has|done
much|to|build|it|up|and|increas|it|membership
georg|a|nute|is|also|a|nativ|of|lincoln|main|and|was|born|decem
ber|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|he|is|the|second|son|of|the|abov|and|is|one|of|the|most
promin|and|influenti|busi|men|of|this|vicin|educ|primarili
in|the|public|school|he|afterward|enter|the|bryant|stratton|school|in
boston|and|secur|a|good|busi|educ|which|has|been|of|infinit
servic|to|him|in|his|subsequ|career|he|first|enter|his|father|s|store
as|a|clerk|and|soon|made|himself|master|of|the|busi|when|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he
was|taken|into|partnership|on|august|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was|appoint|postma
ter|and|is|veri|popular|in|that|capac|he|is|an|agent|for|the|west|jer
sey|mail|transport|compani|and|doe|a|larg|amount|of|busi
be|one|of|the|energet|wideawak|merchant|who|not|onli|succeed
themselv|but|also|add|to|the|prosper|of|their|home|town|by|their|enter
prise|spirit|he|is|connect|with|a|number|of|fratern|order|be|a
member|of|the|mason|odd|fellow|iolden|eagl|and|junior|order|of
american|mechan|he|has|been|twice|marri|his|first|wife|miss|sadi
e|knisel|of|this|villag|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|leav|one|child|hilda|m
he|then|marri|miss|mari|e|steven|of|delawar|the|ceremoni|be
solemn|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five
john|h|vanleer
john|h|vanleer|the|postmast|of|friesburg|salem|counti|is|one|of
the|most|enterpris|and|success|busi|men|and|citizen|of|this|flour
ish|place|all|local|affair|are|particip|in|by|him|with|earnest|and
patriot|spirit|and|he|is|look|up|to|and|consult|by|those|have|the|best
interest|of|this|communiti|at|heart
the|vanleer|famili|origin|in|germani|where|the|name|was|spell
van|loer|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|suljject|was|a|farmer|of|mullica
hill|salem|counti|new|jersev|and|that|he|was|an|unusuallv|strong|and
fohn|jf|vanleer
congressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|two hundred and thirty-five
activ|man|mav|l|e|infer|from|the|fact|that|not|long|ijefor|his|death|at|the
extrem|age|of|one|hundr|and|one|ear|he|made|a|trip|on|horseback|of
his|eleven|children|samuel|anleer|the|grandfath|of|john|h|was|born
near|swedesboro|this|state|and|was|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|durmg
his|activ|life|then|he|retir|and|made|his|home|in|bridgeton|where|he
own|some|properti|in|addit|to|which|he|possess|three|farm|and|was
welltodo|he|was|a|democrat|and|religi|was|a|member|of|the|luth
eran|church|bv|his|first|marriag|he|had|eleven|children|name|georg
nna|who|marri|dave|garrison|and|later|john|callahan|lari|the|wife
of|abraham|harri|and|afterward|of|william|tarpin|lichael|samuel|wil
liam|joseph|isaac|salli|who|remain|unmarri|susi|and|john|of|the
union|of|samuel|vanleer|sr|and|hannah|jerman|one|son|henri|j
was|born|mari|has|been|a|missionari|in|africa|but|is|now|at|home|to
recuper|her|health|with|the|intent|of|return|to|her|work|in|africa
the|father|of|these|children|live|to|reach|the|ninetieth|anniversari|of|his
birth
isaac|vanleer|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|deerfield|township
cumberland|counti|new|jersey|and|like|his|ancestor|made|farm|his
chief|busi|in|life|howev|he|also|carri|on|a|flourish|trade|m
lumber|and|at|one|time|he|own|two|farm|occupi|numer|local|public
offic|and|was|influenti|and|respect|by|his|neighbor|and|associ
polit|he|was|a|democrat|and|religi|a|lutheran|his|death|oc
cur|when|he|was|about|sixti|year|old|at|the|homestead|in|deerfield
township|where|he|had|pass|near|all|of|his|life|not|one|of|his|sixteen
children|are|deceas|and|all|of|them|are|strong|and|of|fine|physiqu|all|but
three|weigh|over|two|hundr|pound|each|mr|vanleer|s|first|marriag
was|to|susanna|kitchen|a|daughter|of|john|kitchen|and|five|children
were|born|of|this|union|name|john|h|imatilda|who|is|the|widow|of
samuel|davi|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|and|has|two|son|samuel
and|chester|horac|whose|biographi|appear|elsewher|salli|the|wife|of
charl|nixon|a|railroad|employ|and|mother|of|margaret|and|bertha|and
anna|the|wife|of|william|coleman|a|farmer|and|liveryman|of|woodstown
salem|counti|mr|and|mrs|coleman|have|one|son|frank|and|a|daughter
louisa|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|isaac|vanleer|wed|christiana
johnston|and|their|eldest|child|isaac|marri|jenni|irvin|and|is|a|produc
commiss|merchant|in|philadelphia|pennsylvania|earl|a|blacksmith
marri|nina|ruft|and|has|one|child|walter|has|been|marri|but|has|lost
his|wife|charl|and|susan|marri|ellsworth|whose|wife|bore|the
maiden|name|of|mari|watson|is|the|father|of|two|children|and|the|younger
brother|and|sister|are|bert|emma|evan|milton|and|mari
two hundred and thirty-six|biographiv|histori|of|the|first
the|l|irth|of|john|h|vanleer|occur|on|the|parent|farm|in|deerfield
township|cumberland|counti|septemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|his|educ|was|ac
quir|in|the|public|school|befor|he|was|eighteen|year|of|age|after|which
he|devot|his|time|to|farm|and|engag|in|thresh|dure|a|part|of
each|year|until|he|was|about|twentyfour|year|old|subsequ|to|his
marriag|he|carri|on|a|farm|in|his|nativ|township|for|a|period|and|then
bought|a|place|near|shirley|this|state|fter|ojier|that|farm|for|four
year|he|locat|in|friesl|urg|where|he|own|and|manag|an|eightythre
acr|farm|carri|on|a|blacksmith|and|carriag|repair|shop|a|steam|grist
and|sawmil|a|creameri|and|a|general|store
sinc|he|settl|in|this|pzce|he|has|been|the|postmast|and|for|three
year|he|has|offici|as|a|member|of|the|township|committe|he|is|acti|e|in
the|democrat|parti|but|has|not|been|an|aspir|to|public|offic|like|his
forefath|he|is|an|adher|of|the|lutheran|church|and|for|six|year|he|has
been|a|deacon|in|the|congreg|to|which|he|belong|for|a|wife|he|chose
sarah|e|a|daughter|of|joseph|rempster|a|prosper|farmer|of|auoway
township
r|e|buck|i|d
although|compar|young|in|year|dr|buck|is|one|of|the|largest
practition|of|newfield|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|and|his|friend
predict|for|him|a|brilliant|futur|in|the|profess|he|has|chosen|he|was
born|in|cape|alay|counti|this|state|octob|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|and|is|a|son|of
crawford|and|rebecca|courson|buck|his|grandfath|hope|buck|was
a|sea|captain|crawford|buck|was|ijorn|at|ocean|view|new|jersey|and|was
a|freehold|of|cape|may|counti|for|mani|year|dure|the|civil|war|he
was|on|a|tug|boat|he|was|a|professor|of|music|and|a|wellknown|singer
he|serv|as|organist|in|the|baptist|church|for|thirtyf|year|he|mar
rie|aliss|reljecca|courson|of|the|same|local|and|they|had|three|chil
dren|josephin|the|wife|of|dr|edward|hum|hrev|of|pennsvhania|r
e|our|subject|and|laura|a|spinster
dr|r|e|buck|receiv|his|primari|educ|from|tlie|common|school
later|he|receiv|instruct|from|a|professor|and|then|enter|rush|medi
cal|colleg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|graduat|three|year|later|the|same|fall|be|receiv
his|degre|of|si|d|he|came|to|this|villag|where|he|open|an|offic|and
began|the|practic|of|his|profess|he|has|made|an|enviabl|record|here
and|enjoy|a|wide|and|lucrati|practic|which|necessit|him|keep|two
hors|his|practic|is|not|confin|to|this|immedi|vicin|but|his
figur|is|familiar|in|all|part|of|the|surround|countri|where|be|has|been
congression|district|of|neif|jersey|two hundred and thirty-seven
call|to|reliev|the|suffer|he|was|marri|octob|twelve|189c|to|miss
nina|leroy|daughter|of|william|leroy|of|nevvfield|he|was|for|three
year|connect|with|the|navi|of|peru|they|are|earnest|christian|peopl
member|of|the|baptist|church|and|are|popular|member|of|societx
william|collin
william|collin|the|present|sheriff|of|gloucest|counti|new|jersey
is|among|the|repres|men|of|oodburi|and|has|live|more|than
half|a|centurv|in|this|countv|have|lieen|born|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|near|cross
key|washington|township|his|parent|were|abijah|and|patienc|peas
collin|fomier|well|known|and|respect|citizen|the|collin|famili|were
among|the|earliest|settler|and|have|been|promin|identifi|with|the
historv|of|the|countv|the|greatgrandfath|was|a|soldier|in|the|revolu
tionar|v|war|and|rear|a|famili|among|whom|was|william|the|grandfath
of|our|subject|he|was|born|in|this|counti|and|spent|his|life|in|the|tillmg
of|the|soil|and|becam|a|prosper|and|veri|promin|man|he|marn
martha|morgan|and|rear|a|number|of|children|of|whom|but|one|joseph
is|now|live|thev|were|martha|joseph|and|abijah|he|die|in|middl
life|at|fortveight|vear|of|age|and|was|surviv|mani|year|by|his|wife|who
attain|tlie|extrem|age|of|ninetythre|year|when|she|was|laid|to|sleep
besid|her|husband|in|the|churchyard|at|hurffvill|washington|counti
new|jersev
abijah|collin|was|born|juli|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|ui|gloucest|counti|where|so
manv|of|that|name|were|usher|into|exist|he|continu|to|make|his
home|there|and|becam|a|high|respect|and|prosper|farmer|of|that
region|whose|death|on|februari|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|was|regret|by|the|mani
who|knew|honor|and|rever|him|the|maiden|name|of|his|wife|was
patienc|peas|a|daughter|of|john|and|rachel|peas|resid|of|wash
ton|township|and|among|the|earliest|settler|of|this|counti|she|is|the|onli
surviv|child|of|the|four|born|to|her|parent|her|mother|had|been|pre
viouslv|marri|to|jonathan|kindl|b|whom|she|had|three|children|sarah
mrswilsi|abraham|and|catherin|deceas|abijah|collin|had|five
children|william|whose|sketch|we|here|present|georg|c|deceas
charl|e|mari|h|and|albert
william|collin|was|rear|on|the|ancestr|acr|attend|the|common
school|and|was|inur|to|the|hardship|and|toil|incid|to|farm|life|when
he|reach|his|major|he|purchas|a|farm|of|one|hundr|acr|which
he|place|in|a|high|state|of|cultiv|improv|with|a|modern|resid
two hundred and thirty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|outljuild|and|made|iii|liom|here|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|when|he|took|up|his
resid|in|woodburi|he|was|a|progress|agriculturist|who|adopt
the|easiest|and|most|conveni|method|of|perform|his|work|and|much
of|his|success|which|more|shiftless|neighbor|would|attribut|to|luck|was
but|the|applic|of|common|sens|to|common|object
on|june|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|he|was|join|in|wedlock|with|miss|elizabeth|hurfif
a|daughter|of|joseph|and|elizabeth|hurfif|four|daughter|have|bless
this|marriag|lovisa|the|wife|of|walton|h|chew|ruth|alic|and|iva
air|collin|is|a|republican|and|serv|as|the|collector|of|his|township|for
ten|year|and|was|then|elect|to|the|offic|of|sheriff|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|the|posit
he|has|so|credit|fill|and|still|hold|he|is|a|member|of|the|grang|and
of|glassboro|lodg|no|eighty-five|f|one|and|a|zealous|worker|in|the|aleth
odist|episcop|church|of|which|he|is|a|truste
tho|ia|d|3novan
an|investig|of|the|lie|of|mani|of|the|lead|busi|men|of
the|countri|will|show|that|they|have|start|out|for|themselv|veri|young
without|capit|and|have|advanc|steadili|as|the|result|of|their|own|well
direct|effort|of|such|a|class|is|mr|donovan|who|is|now|owner|of|a
grocer|store|at|sea|isl|citi|he|was|born|in|counti|tipperari
ireland|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|a|son|of|denni|and|alic|slatter|donovan
his|grandfath|jame|donovan|was|born|in|the|same|counti|and|there
follow|the|occup|of|farm|in|the|cathol|church|he|was|a
communic|and|in|that|faith|die|at|the|age|of|eighti|year|he|wed
margaret|duggan|and|their|children|were|ellen|now|deceas|mar
denni|lawrenc|john|and|thoma|who|came|to|the|unit|state
enter|the|lnion|armi|dure|the|ciil|war|and|was|kill|in|battl|denni
donovan|has|spent|his|entir|life|in|the|emerald|isl|and|has|carri|on
farm|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|he|too|is|a|member|of|the|cathol|church
he|marri|miss|alic|slatter|who|die|februari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|at|the|age
of|sixtyfrv|year|they|becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|jame|who
resid|in|south|amboy|new|jersey|where|he|is|engag|in|the|baker|s
busi|marri|margaret|fitzgerald|andrew|is|deceas|thoma|and
patrick|are|the|next|of|the|famili|margaret|is|also|deceas|catharin
is|the|wife|of|an|offic|of|the|english|armi|now|at|singapor|in|the|east
indi|william|is|in|ireland
thoma|donovan|whose|name|head|this|articl|was|educ|in|the
nation|parish|school|of|the|emerald|isl|but|at|the|age|of|twelv|year
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and thirty-nine
put|asid|his|textbook|and|serv|an|apprenticeship|at|the|groceri|and
liquor|busi|in|dubhn|ireland|his|term|of|servic|cover|three|year
but|he|remain|with|the|hous|as|an|employ|for|seven|year|subs
quentli|he|went|to|liverpool|england|and|about|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|came|to|the|unit
state|where|he|has|sinc|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|for|a|short
time|he|was|locat|in|philadelphia|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|came|to|sea|isl|citi
where|he|soon|open|a|small|groceri|not|long|afterard|he|purchas
properti|and|has|sinc|engag|in|the|groceri|feed|and|provis|busi
he|has|a|larg|trade|and|his|extens|patronag|bring|him|a|good|incom
he|also|own|a|number|of|build|site|at|this|place|and|is|a|mcmlier|of
the|sea|isl|citi|build|loan|associ|and|new|jersey|build
loan|invest|compani
on|the|22d|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|mr|donovan|marri|miss|afari
mcgari|and|to|them|were|born|four|children|william|and|mari|angelo|at
home|and|thoma|and|joseph|who|are|both|deceas|the|parent|are
member|of|the|cathol|church|and|mr|donovan|belong|to|the|clan
nagael|of|philadelphia|his|polit|support|is|given|to|the|democraci
when|question|of|nation|import|are|involv|but|at|local|elect
where|there|is|no|polit|issu|befor|the|peopl|he|cast|his|ballot|for|the
man|whom|he|think|best|qualifi|for|offic|the|onli|posit|he|has
ever|fill|has|been|that|of|member|of|the|board|of|health|for|he|prefer
to|devot|his|time|and|energi|to|his|ijusi|in|which|he|is|meet|with
credit|success
j|morton|shoch
this|substanti|farmer|of|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|was
born|upon|the|farm|where|he|now|resid|march|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|is|a|son|of
captain|lewi|and|margaret|morton|shoch|at|the|outbreak|of|the
civil|war|the|father|who|also|was|a|tiller|of|the|soil|rais|a|compani
which|was|muster|in|as|compani|c|twentyeighth|new|jersey|volun
teer|and|of|which|he|serv|as|the|captain|for|three|year|the|patern
famili|consist|of|five|children|name|robert|a|commiss|merchant
in|richmond|irginia|lewi|thirty-one|a|farmer|in|a|oolwich|township|harri
b|a|farmer|near|paulsboro|j|morton|and|lizzi|b|the|wife|of|sumner
leap|a|farmer|near|bridgeport|new|jersey
while|a|boy|six|shoch|attend|the|district|school|of|his|nativ|town
ship|and|assist|his|father|on|the|farm|after|the|death|of|his|father|he
remain|upon|the|old|homestead|which|is|a|fine|piec|of|properti|situat
on|the|stone|road|between|swedesboro|and|paulsboro|near|the|logan
two hundred and forty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
township|line|here|he|carri|on|general|farm|in|wiiich|he|has|been
er|success
yir|shoch|was|marri|decemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|to|miss|ella|taylor|a
daughter|of|jame|taylor|of|swedesboro|and|they|are|the|parent|of|three
children|william|h|joseph|c|and|raymond|m|in|polit|mr|shoch
coincid|with|the|republican|parti|and|social|he|is|a|member|of|the
junior|o|you|a|m|the|a|o|you|v|and|the|p|of|h
joseph|d|whitak
near|thirtyseven|year|ago|joseph|d|whitak|the|popular|post
master|of|penn|s|grove|took|up|his|perman|resid|in|this|place|and
dure|this|period|he|has|thorough|identifi|himself|with|everi|movement
calcul|to|benefit|the|town|his|histori|is|of|interest|for|it|is|the|record
of|a|selfmad|man|of|one|who|has|been|oblig|to|work|out|the|problem
of|life|unaid|and|who|has|vanquish|each|difficulti|present|to|him
he|is|a|grandson|of|william|and|patienc|whitak|of|millvill|new
jersey|and|as|his|father|william|h|wliitak|die|when|the|child|was|but
five|year|of|age|and|the|mother|mrs|patienc|sheppard|whitak|when
he|was|an|infant|of|about|two|year|he|went|to|live|with|his|grandmoth
sheppard|remain|under|her|hospit|roof|until|fourteen|year|of|age
william|h|hitak|was|a|nativ|of|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|and
at|the|time|of|his|death|he|was|in|charg|of|a|vessel|engag|in|the|coast
trade|he|was|a|natur|mechan|and|sailor|and|enjoy|the|respect|of|all
with|whom|he|was|associ|in|the|presbyterian|church|of|his|home|town
he|was|an|activ|member|and|no|one|in|that|section|was|a|stronger|friend
of|the|son|of|temper|and|the|becaus|for|which|the|associ|was|or
ganiz|he|was|an|onli|son|and|all|of|his|four|sister|susan|rebecca
eunic|and|maria|have|pass|into|the|silent|land|also
joseph|d|whitak|whose|birth|occur|in|cedarill|cumberland
counti|august|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|was|onli|twehe|ear|of|age|when|he|commenc
work|on|a|farm|in|order|to|earn|his|own|livelihood|and|soon|afterward
he|becam|interest|in|the|oyster|fisheri|accompani|men|engag|in
gather|that|succul|bivalv|on|the|delawar|river|five|year|pass
in|this|pursuit|and|then|the|youth|accept|a|posit|as|mate|under|cap
tain|garrison|his|time|was|spent|in|this|manner|for|four|year|after|which
he|took|charg|of|the|schooner|name|david|e|wolf|and|for|two|and|a
half|year|continu|as|it|master|have|care|husband|his|resourc
he|was|now|enabl|to|purchas|an|interest|in|the|schooner|jane|c|patter
jr|three|a
coxgressiox|district|of|xeir|jersey|two hundred and forty-one
son|which|he|sail|for|a|period|of|four|year|and|then|becam|a|part|owner
of|the|schooner|richard|aux|at|the|expir|of|anoth|four|year|he
sold|out|his|other|ship|interest|and|built|the|schooner|jenni|middl
ton|of|bridgeton|xew|jersey|which|craft|he|sail|for|some|eight|year
with|success|dispos|of|this|vessel|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|invest|a|goodh|sum|in
the|brig|ellen|h|monro|and|four|year|later|built|the|schooner|lewi|k
cottingham|of|which|he|was|the|master|for|eight|year|and|which|he|still
own
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|ir|whitak|took|up|his|abod|in|penn|s|grove|in|the|autumn
of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|was|honor|by|be|elect|to|repres|his|district|in|the|state
legislatur|and|for|two|winter|session|he|was|at|his|post|of|duti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven
his|name|was|again|place|upon|the|republican|ticket|but|he|was|defeat
by|about|twelv|vote|on|new|year|s|day|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|the|appoint|of|post
master|of|penn|s|grove|was|bestow|upon|him|and|he|faith|continu
to|serv|in|that|capac|until|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|at|that|time|he|embark|in
the|realest|busi|and|among|other|enterpris|in|which|he|engag
was|that|of|buy|the|old|clark|gristmil|which|he|move|to|it|present
locat|remodel|and|rebuilt|final|sell|it|march|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|his|general
effici|and|popular|dure|the|period|of|his|public|servic|led|to|his|sec
ond|appoint|to|the|postmastership|of|penn|s|grove|juli|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and
this|offic|he|continu|to|fill|with|credit|to|himself|and|numer|friend
while|at|the|same|time|he|conduct|a|realest|and|privat|bank|busi
he|is|a|member|of|the|state|mutual|build|loan|associ|of|cam
den|xew|jersey|and|of|the|mutual|build|loan|bank|of|philadelphia
ma|twenty-four|one thousand, nine hundred|the|penn|grove|nation|bank|was|organ|and|mr|hit
aker|was|elect|it|presid
the|marriag|of|mr|whitak|and|miss|mar|e|simpkin|was|celebr
august|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|four|children|were|born|to|them|name|mlliam|h
jenni|a|jame|and|lulu|who|one|by|one|have|been|summon|to|the
better|land|mrs|whitak|is|a|daughter|of|jame|and|mari|bicldl|simp
kin|of|penn|s|grove|the|father|one|of|the|lead|citizen|of|this|place
was|a|prime|mover|in|the|build|of|the|emanuel|methodist|episcop
church|a|substanti|modern|brick|edific
the|haix|hax|famili
dure|the|greater|part|of|the|nineteenth|centuri|the|hain|hane
famili|own|and|resid|at|eldridg|hill|their|beauti|estat|near
woodstown|salem|counti|have|been|promin|associ|with|local
histori|and|in|consequ|are|just|entitl|to|represent|in|the|annal
two hundred and forty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|this|region|the|ancestri|may|be|trace|back|through|mani|generat
to|william|hain|the|founder|of|the|famili|in|america|he|came|from
england|to|salem|jniassachusett|about|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-six|he|marri|sarah|ingersol
and|their|children|were|as|follow|john|who|was|baptiz|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-nine|jame
in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-one|benjamin|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-three|mari|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-six|jame|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-seven|jonathan|in
one thousand, six hundred and forty-eight|sarah|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-eight|and|thoma|the|last|name|was|born|in|salem
massachusett|in|one hundred and sixty-five|one|and|was|marri|on|the|15th|of|decemb|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-six|to
sarah|ray|of|salem|their|children|were|john|who|was|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-eight
william|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|sarah|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|joseph|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|benjamin|septemb|twenty-one
one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five|daniel|who|was|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|and|die|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-nine|hannah|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-nine
and|thoma|born|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one|this|famili|all|remov|to|salem|counti|new
jersey|about|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-seven|nd|were|in|alannington|and|pile|grove|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one|ben
jamin|hain|of|this|famili|was|born|septemb|twenty-one|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five|and|die|in
salem|counti|new|jersey|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-three|there|is|record|of|a|power|of|attorney
made|by|joseph|hain|jr|and|thoma|hain|a|plantat|man|dan
iel|hain|a|carpent|of|mannington|new|jersey|and|roger|haggin
and|his|wife|sarah|of|pile|grove|new|jersey|give|their|brother|ben
jamin|hain|weaver|also|of|mannington|power|to|sell|certain|land|in
salem|massachusett|which|former|belong|to|their|father|thoma
hain|which|said|thoma|receiv|by|will|from|his|father|william|hain
and|the|latter|receiv|by|will|from|his|fatherinlaw|richard|ingersol|this
document|be|date|septemb|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-one|there|is|a|copi|of|the|will|of
this|benjamin|hain|to|whom|was|given|the|power|of|attorney|the|will
was|made|januari|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-three|and|was|approv|june|two|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-three|in|this|mention
is|made|of|his|wife|ann|and|the|follow|children|joseph|benjamin
john|mari|ann|and|hannah|all|the|ancestor|abov|mention|wrote
the|name|hain|of|this|famili|john|hain|who|drop|the|i|from|the
name|born|about|the|year|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty|had|by|his|wife|rebecca|two|son|jo
seph|and|john|the|latter|was|born|may|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-seven|and|by|his|wife|mar
garet|had|six|children|john|born|april|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|edward|born|septemb
twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|thoma|born|june|sixteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|mari|rebecca|and|catherin|who
becam|mrs|eastlock|and|die|in|wabash|indiana
john|hain|the|father|of|these|children|was|a|nativ|of|mannington
township|salem|counti|and|pass|his|entir|life|in|that|local|he|was
a|mechan|and|was|domin|by|the|same|industri|and|practic|trait
of|charact|notic|in|his|poster|his|son|edward|was|born|in|the
same|township|septemb|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|and|on|the|12th|of|alarch|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|marri
esther|mullica|three|year|later|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|he|came|to|eldridg|hill|where
his|descend|have|dwelt|ever|sinc|he|inherit|the|talent|for|mechan
that|his|father|had|befor|him|and|to|his|aid|and|influenc|was|due|in|larg
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and forty-three
measur|the|establish|of|the|foundri|iier|which|lia|been|in|success
ful|oper|for|so|mani|decad|when|the|ag|itat|pro|and|contra|slav
eri|was|wax|fiercer|and|fiercer|he|becam|a|stanch|abolitionist|and|took
great|interest|in|the|emancip|of|the|slave|a|few|year|prior|to|his
death|he|join|the|societi|of|friend|and|was|love|and|high|itonor
in|their|rank|death|releas|him|from|the|toil|and|sorrow|of|this|life
septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|had|one|liroth|john|who|was|born|april|nine
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|his|sister|rebecca|marri|israel|eastlak|novemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty
and|anoth|sister|catherin|becam|tiie|wife|of|samuel|eastlak|febru
ari|one|one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four
of|the|children|born|to|edward|and|esther|flain|hane|onli|two|are
now|live|thoma|to|whom|refer|is|made|later|and|miss|emili
who|was|born|at|eldridg|hill|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and|wdios|entir|life|has|been|spent
in|this|immedi|local|where|she|is|love|and|respect|by|a|larg|circl
of|old|friend|and|old|associ|her|brother|edward|william|samuel
and|john|and|her|sister|margaret|and|rhoda|have|one|by|one|pass
to|the|better|land|john|hain|hane|born|august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|at|eldridg
hill|marri|abigail|a|daughter|of|john|and|sarah|brown|and|had|one
daughter|florenc|all|now|deceas|john|hain|hane|was|of|a|prac
tical|turn|of|mind|and|for|mani|year|was|activ|interest|in|the|man
agement|of|the|foundri|here|be|connect|with|that|flourish|industri
until|a|short|time|befor|his|demis|which|event|occur|march|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
with|the|except|of|a|short|period|which|he|spent|at|camden|new|jersey
he|alway|made|his|home|here|and|was|great|respect|by|everv|one
his|genuin|abil|and|sterl|worth|were|recogn|although|in|manner
he|appear|rather|stern|and|dignifi|benevol|and|kindlv|toward|his
fellow|in|truth|he|quiet|perform|mani|a|deed|of|charitv|and|lent|a
help|hand|to|the|poor|and|unfortun|on|numer|occas|in|his
financi|undertak|he|achiev|success|and|be|a|great|reader|and
thinker|took|an|activ|interest|in|the|lead|cjuestion|of|the|time
thoma|hain|hane|born|in|one hundred and eighty-one|six|in|this|local|and|now|li|on
the|old|famili|estat|with|his|sister|miss|emili|was|a|resid|of|vineland
new|jersey|for|thirti|year|when|a|youth|he|was|apprent|to|the
contractor|and|builder|s|trade|and|have|master|the|call|he|con
tinu|to|follow|it|until|his|father|retir|from|activ|busi|life|thoma
who|possess|all|the|tradit|mechan|qualif|of|his|ancestor
succeed|him|in|the|foundri|under|his|wise|manag|the|busi|grew
rapid|he|retir|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|immedi|after|the|death|of|his|wife|he
was|marri|to|mari|a|daughter|of|john|and|deborah|warrington|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one
she|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|age|fortynin|their|eldest|child|edward|die|in
two hundred and forty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|at|the|age|of|twentyon|their|three|daughter|are|ellen|elizabeth
the|wife|of|william|taylor|and|mother|of|three|children|mari|margaret
and|edward|who|die|in|infanc|and|laura|the|wife|of|clark|ridgway
and|the|mother|of|one|daughter|helen
thus|as|may|be|seen|thoma|hain|hane|now|in|his|eightyfourth
year|is|the|onli|surviv|male|repres|of|the|hain|hane|famili
whose|geneaolog|is|perfect|without|a|broken|link|back|to|england
cover|a|space|of|over|two|hundr|and|sixti|year|the|famili|name
has|undergon|mani|chang|it|was|deriv|from|a|saxon|word|signi
fy|a|man|that|need|no|help|in|one thousand, five hundred and forty|it|was|written|hayn|later
on|hayn|and|still|later|hain|the|i|was|drop|from|the|name|by
the|grandfath|of|thoma|john|and|emili|to|distinguish|the|famili|from
other|of|the|same|name|in|all|the|record|of|the|famili|on|this|side|of|the
ocean|date|from|if|three|o|iqi|it|is|written|hain|after|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|we|find|it
written|hane
a|coat|of|arm|grant|the|familx|earl|in|one thousand, five hundred|bear|this|motto|there
is|no|ditilicultv|to|him|that|will
hexri|jackson
henri|jackson|m|d|counti|i|hysician|of|salem|counti|and|a|lead
member|of|the|medic|profess|in|the|citi|of|salem|is|a|son|of|joseph
garwood|and|mari|craig|jackson|born|novemb|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|near|mullica
hill|gloucest|counti|the|birthplac|of|sever|generat|of|the|famili
they|are|of|english|extract|and|belong|to|that|branch|of|the|jackson
and|anhorn|famili|that|settl|in|new|york|citi|sever|generat|back
the|greatgrandfath|joseph|jackson|was|a|farmer|of|gloucest|counti
where|his|son|henri|the|grandfath|was|born|and|grew|to|manhood
henri|devot|his|life|to|the|vocat|of|husbandri|and|live|and|die|in
that|counti|he|marri|sarah|garwood|and|rear|live|children|name
ann|s|who|marri|richard|richard|joseph|g|the|father|elizabeth|who
marri|gal|riel|i|aliliott|sarah|who|marri|joseph|m|stout|and|han
nah|unmarri|both|henri|and|sarah|jackson|live|to|pass|their|eightieth
year
joseph|g|jackson|was|born|octob|three|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|in|gloucest|counti|and
receiv|a|commonschool|educ|after|which|he|engag|in|farm
on|the|old|homestead|where|he|remain|all|his|life|he|was|a|whig
and|a|zealous|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|his|marriag
to|miss|marv|craig|was|honor|in|the|birth|of|five|children|namelv
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|two hundred and forty-five
john|c|who|was|born|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|was|a|soldier|in|compani|f
twelfth|new|jersey|volunt|and|die|at|his|home|charl|s|who|was
born|june|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|was|in|the|third|new|jersey|compani|a|serv
two|year|and|eleven|month|reenlist|and|was|wound|in|the|first|battl
at|appomattox|receiv|gunshot|wound|in|the|knee|from|which|he|die
in|philadelphia|henri|is|our|subject|gilbert|was|born|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two
and|resid|in|oklahoma|where|he|is|connect|with|the|missouri|pacif
railway|he|marri|sarah|j|hoagiand|joseph|g|was|born|march
three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|marri|anna|rulon|and|resid|in|glassboro|this|state|the
father|die|in|august|i860|age|fortyeight|year|and|the|mother|who
was|born|june|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|is|still|live|be|now|in|her|seventyninth|year
dr|henri|jackson|was|a|student|of|the|public|school|of|gloucest
counti|in|his|boyhood|and|ha|decid|to|take|up|the|studi|of|medi
cine|he|enter|the|hahnemann|medic|colleg|at|which|he|graduat
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|at|onc|open|an|ofiic|and|began|the|practic|of|his|profe
sion|in|salem|where|he|has|been|locat|ever|sinc|and|has|a|larg|and
extens|practic|cover|a|wide|territori|and|embrac|a|class|of|patient
that|speak|well|for|his|efiici|as|a|physician|he|has|been|most|fortun
in|his|practic|and|display|a|profici|and|skill|in|the|treatment|of|diseas
that|is|unsurpass|and|has|brought|him|into|promin|in|the|medic
profess|in|this|vicin
dr|jackson|was|marri|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|to|sarah|elizabeth|miller
and|thev|have|been|bless|by|the|birth|of|three|children|mami|a|born
march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|die|in|infanc|charl|henri|born|may|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|resid
at|philadelphia|and|is|a|druggist|and|william|b|born|decemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
is|a|clerk|in|the|cloth|hous|of|strawbridg|clothier|of|philadelphia
dr|jackson|is|a|member|of|the|est|jersey|homeopath|medic|societi
and|examin|physician|for|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|the
mason|aid|associ|of|chicago|the|state|mutual|life|insur|com
pani|of|new|jersev|and|the|mason|associ|of|western|new|york
he|is|now|fill|his|second|year|as|the|counti|physician|he|is|a|mem
ber|of|the|knight|of|pythia|the|mason|fratern|and|of|the|methodist
episcop|church|in|which|he|is|an|untir|worker|in|polit|he|give
his|support|to|the|democrat|parti|william|iiller|deceas|the|father
of|mrs|jackson|was|a|merchant|of|berkeley|this|state|where|he|occupi
a|promin|posit|in|the|busi|communiti|and|has|held|sever|local
offic|he|is|a|son|of|william|and|naomi|fisler|miller|resid|of
swedesboro|new|jersey|they|were|of|thrifti|german|stock|and|among
the|prosper|farm|element|of|gloucest|counti|they|had|six|chil
dren|name|jane|the|wife|of|william|kennard|margaret|the|wife|of
two hundred and forty-six|biograph|histori|op|thp|pirst
thoma|batton|catlierin|tlie|wife|of|andrew|lock|josiah|alari|wife
of|emor|hall|and|william|the|father|of|ir|jackson|william|grew|to
manhood|in|his|nativ|counti|and|join|heart|and|hand|with|miss
rachel|ann|gibb|hve|children|bless|their|home|name|anna|g
who|marri|samuel|h|ward|a|farmer|of|westvill|new|jersey|sarah
elizabeth|wife|of|dr|jackson|william|brook|deceas|a|baker|of|cali
fornia|who|marri|kate|bower|laura|who|marri|j|r|fell|a|civil
engin|who|also|is|in|the|realest|and|insur|busi|at|trenton
and|winfield|scott|a|farmer|who|marri|iiss|ella|bastedo
georg|h|reev
everywher|in|our|land|are|found|men|who|have|work|their|own|w|ay
from|humbl|and|lowli|begin|to|place|of|leadership|in|the|commerc
the|great|product|industri|and|the|manag|of|the|vein|and|arteri
of|the|tralif|and|exchang|of|the|countri|obstacl|and|difficulti|in|their
path|seem|but|to|serv|as|an|impetus|for|renew|effort|on|their|part|and
they|find|that|labor|is|the|key|that|unlock|the|portal|of|success|such|has
been|the|career|of|mr|reev|w|ho|now|occujji|a|lead|posit|in|the
industri|circl|of|cape|may|counti|be|now|at|the|head|of|an|extens
goldbeat|concern|in|cape|may
a|nativ|of|west|cape|may|he|was|born|januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|and|is|a|son
of|joshua|and|eleanor|woolson|reev|his|father|was|a|shoemak|and
farmer|in|west|cape|may|and|a|repres|man|of|that|town|he|was
a|great|bibl|student|and|particular|promin|in|church|work|he|serv
for|mani|year|as|rule|elder|in|the|presbyterian|church|at|cold|spring|and
took|an|activ|part|in|the|work|of|the|sundayschool|he|was|a|strong|o|d
ponent|of|the|liquor|traffic|belong|to|the|son|of|temper|and|gave
his|aid|and|influenc|to|all|measur|which|he|believ|would|uplift|human
his|death|occur|in|the|fortyseventh|year|of|his|age|and|his|wife|die|in
august|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|advanc|age|of|eightyfour|year|this|worthi|coupl
were|the|parent|of|eleven|children|two|of|whom|die|young|charl
and|anna|e|the|other|nine|are|as|follow|david|a|goldleaf|manufactur
of|cincinnati|ohio|marri|lizzi|a|mcilliam|and|had|one|son|lewi
f|swain|s|a|farmer|at|cape|may|point|in|lower|township|marri|sl
vina|church|and|their|children|are|georg|h|edward|s|and|elmer
andrew|h|a|goldleaf|manufactur|of|chicago|illinoi|marri|carri
bright|of|illinoi|and|had|four|children|eleanor|harri|carri|and
charl|fowler|john|a|farmer|of|west|cape|iay|who|has|sever|time
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and forty-seven
serv|as|freehold|and|is|now|sheriff|of|cape|may|counti|marri|emma
l|nott|and|their|children|are|andrew|h|david|leroy|a|carl|and|samuel
w|joshua|h|a|lighthousekeep|at|seal|isl|citi|marri|josephin
ross|and|their|children|are|bertha|and|john|w|mari|e|is|the|deceas
wife|of|charl|schelleng|and|their|children|were|jenni|taylor|and|wash
ington|georg|h|is|the|next|of|the|famili|eliza|w|is|at|home|and|anna
e|is|the|wife|of|fred|neal|a|farmer|in|rio|grand|and|their|children|are
lydia|and|warren
mr|reev|whose|name|introduc|this|review|was|educ|in|the|old
cape|schoolhous|and|at|the|age|of|fourteen|l|egan|to|earn|his|own|live
hood|he|learn|the|goldbeat|trade|in|philadelphia|and|for|four|year
was|indentur|to|his|brother|andrew|h|in|chicago|he|becam|foreman
of|the|shop|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|thus|continu|until|the|great|chicago|fire|of|oc
tober|one|eighty-seven|one|when|his|brother|s|plant|was|destroy|and|he|then|return|to
the|east|be|employ|in|a|goldbeat|establish|in|philadelphia
in|eighteen thousand, seven hundred and twelve|he|then|return|to|chicago|and|again|becam|foreman|for|his
brother|who|had|resum|busi|and|with|whom|he|remain|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight
when|owe|to|fail|health|he|again|came|to|the|east|here|he|work|on
a|railroad|with|a|section|gang|for|a|dollar|a|day|and|had|a|hard|struggl|for
some|time|he|appli|for|a|posit|in|a|larg|factori|but|did|not|obtain
it|becaus|he|would|not|compli|with|the|condit|of|the|labor|organ
he|was|afterward|sought|by|the|firm|of|hast|compani|to|establish
a|busi|at|cape|may|and|he|began|oper|on|a|small|scale|his|forc
of|employ|consist|of|two|boy|and|two|girl|after|two|year|he|was
sought|to|manag|a|factori|which|the|firm|desir|to|establish|at|cape|may
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|the|factori|was|open|with|six|employ|but|under|his|manag
ment|the|busi|steadili|increas|until|employ|is|now|furnish|to
eighti|oper|and|the|output|is|larg|and|the|busi|profit|mr
reev|superintend|the|build|of|the|factori|which|is|forti|by|forti|feet
and|two|stori|in|height|there|are|now|three|depart|a|beat
a|fill|and|a|cut|depart|whien|mr|reev|open|the|factori|he
employ|untrain|workmen|taught|them|the|busi|and|thus|secur
compet|employ|he|is|ever|just|and|consider|in|his|treatment|of
them|and|they|know|that|faith|on|their|part|will|win|promot|as
opportun|offer|this|is|now|one|of|the|pay|busi|concern|of|the
citi|a|fact|which|is|due|to|the|compet|manag|of|mr|reev
on|the|19th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|mr|reev|marri|miss|georgiana|h
bancroft|a|daughter|of|reuben|f|bancroft|of|philadelphia|their|children
are|as|follow|theodor|who|marri|mari|hugh|by|whom|he|has|a
son|orien|is|foreman|in|the|goldbeat|establish|is|a|memljer
two hundred and forty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|the|schoolboard|of|west|cape|may|is|superintend|of|the|presbyterian
sundayschool|there|is|the|archon|of|his|local|societi|in|the|order|of|hep
tasoph|and|was|a|deleg|to|the|nation|convent|of|that|order|in|buf
falo|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|reuben|b|the|younger|son|is|now|a|student|of|music|in|the
south|jersey|institut|where|he|has|spent|three|year
in|polit|affair|mr|reev|is|a|republican|and|a|recogn|leader
in|the|rank|of|the|parti|he|was|the|mayor|of|west|cape|may|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|his|administr|was|progress|and|benefici|he|is
now|serv|as|a|justic|of|the|peac|and|has|been|a|notari|public|com
mission|of|deed|collector|and|a|member|of|the|schoolboard|sever|term
he|is|also|a|member|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|and|belong
to|the|first|methodist|episcop|church|in|cape|may|in|which|he|has|held
various|offic|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste|ten|year|was
the|sundayschool|superintend|three|year|and|for|ten|or|fifteen|year|has
been|a|local|preacher|his|life|has|ever|been|an|upright|and|honor|one
and|over|the|record|of|his|public|and|privat|career|there|fall|no|shadow|of
wrong|or|suspicion|of|evil|he|is|thorough|honor|in|all|busi|deal
ing|and|at|all|time|command|and|deser|the|confid|of|his|fellow|men
martin|well
this|gentleman|is|an|extens|dealer|in|ice|at|sea|isl|citi|and|is|ac
count|one|of|the|repres|busi|men|of|the|town|he|was|born
at|waterford|atlant|counti|april|four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|is|a|son|of|jacob|and|han
nah|sack|well|the|father|was|of|german|lineag|and|dure|a|period|of
fortyeight|year|resid|in|the|three|town|of|waterford|millvill|and|den
nisvill|he|was|a|glassblow|by|trade|and|follow|that|occup|for
a|number|of|year|but|afterward|engag|in|build|vessel|and|was|also
proprietor|of|the|hotel|in|dennisvill|he|also|engag|in|the|manufac
ture|and|sale|of|cedar|lumber|in|religi|belief|he|was|a|baptist|and|so
cialli|he|was|connect|with|the|mason|fratern|and|the|odd|fellow
order|his|polit|support|was|given|to|the|democraci|and|his|last|day
were|spent|in|dennisvill|he|had|four|children|socrat|townsend|who
marri|ami|mclean|of|estelvill|and|had|four|children|georg|jacob
agn|and|laura|and|after|her|tleath|wed|ruth|craig|martin|of|this
articl|edward|a|realest|dealer|of|philadelphia|who|marrietl|hester
walter|by|whom|he|has|three|children|edward|lula|and|fred|and
leonora|the|wife|of|jacob|miller|by|whom|she|has|two|children|harri|and
leonora|jacob|well|the|father|of|our|subject|die|decemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and forty-nine
at|the|age|of|seventythre|year|anrl|tlie|mother|also|jjass|away|at|seventi
three|year|of|age
air|el|s|of|this|sketch|was|educ|in|the|pubhc|school|of|denni
vill|but|put|asid|his|textbook|at|the|age|of|sixteen|in|order|to|give|his
undivid|attent|to|the|cuhiv|of|his|father|s|farm|he|pursu|the
labor|of|the|field|and|homestead|until|twentythre|year|of|age|when|he
start|out|for|himself|by|learn|the|initch|s|trade|he|drove|a|meat
wagon|for|thirteen|year|sell|throughout|the|neighborhood|and|then
came|to|sea|isl|citi|when|there|were|but|six|busi|hous|in|the|town
here|he|open|a|groceri|meat|and|provis|busi|also|extend|his
field|of|oper|by|deal|in|coal|and|ice|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|purchas|his
present|ice|plant|he|also|has|a|fish|pond|in|which|he|catch|fish|for|the
market|in|this|section|of|the|state|from|time|to|time|he|has|invest|his
capit|in|real|estat|and|is|now|the|owner|of|much|valuabl|properti|at|sea
isl|citi|and|at|avalon|he|also|own|the|dennisvill|hotel|which|is|situ
ate|in|the|midst|of|a|sixacr|tract|of|land|of|the|dennisvill|build
loan|associ|he|is|a|member|also|of|the|sea|isl|citi|associ|and
the|new|jersey|build|loan|bank
on|the|24th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|well
and|miss|eliza|ludlum|and|in|the|citi|where|they|make|their|home|the
have|mani|warm|friend|he|is|a|stanch|advoc|of|democrat|principl
yet|at|local|elect|vote|for|the|man|rather|than|the|parti|he|serv|as
a|member|of|a|compani|of|home|guard|of|dennisvill|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|has|been|a
member|of|the|citi|council|and|was|also|the|first|mayor|of|sea|isl|citi
he|give|his|support|freeli|and|generous|to|all|measur|calcul|to
prove|a|public|benefit|and|has|been|a|promin|factor|in|the|progress|of|the
town|in|which|he|make|his|home|earnest|and|well|direct|labor|com
bine|with|clear|discern|in|place|his|invest|has|brought|to|air
well|a|veri|gratifi|and|desir|success|and|though|he|start|out|in
life|emptyhand|he|steadili|work|his|way|upward|have|long|sinc|left
the|rank|of|the|manv|to|stand|among|the|success|few
adam|kandl
the|elifici|postmast|of|elmer|was|born|in|mannington|township
salem|counti|octob|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and|is|of|german|lineag|his|father
mathia|kandl|a|son|of|adam|kandl|was|born|in|pittsgrov|salem
counti|and|was|a|farmer|throughout|life|he|serv|as|a|freehold|and
for|a|number|of|year|was|a|lead|and|activ|member|of|the|methodist
episcop|church|of|olivet|new|jersey|his|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|his
two hundred and fifty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
wife|amelia|was|a|daughter|of|john|anderson|who|is|a|nativ|of|scotland
and|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventynin|year|in|their|famili|were
thirteen|children|of|whom|the|follow|reach|year|of|matur|name
mrs|ilargaret|ayer|of|deerfield|ir|susanah|f|ogden|of|north|ine
land|ir|amelia|johnson|of|centerlin|joshua|r|of|the|same|place|and
adam
ir|kandl|of|this|review|attend|the|public|school|in|his|youth|and
enter|upon|his|busi|career|as|an|apprentic|at|the|carpent|and|build
er|s|trade|he|follow|that|vocat|for|twentyon|year|at|this|place|and
was|therefor|activ|in|promot|the|interest|of|the|town|mani|of|the
good|build|stand|as|monument|to|his|thrift|and|enterpris|and|indic
the|liber|patronag|which|he|receiv|in|the|line|of|his|trade|he|is|now
serv|as|postmast|to|which|posit|he|was|appoint|by|presid|mc
kinley|on|the|9th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
in|his|polit|view|mr|kandl|is|a|stanch|republican|and|keep|well
inform|on|the|question|and|issu|of|the|day|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|appoint
census|enumer|in|the|lower|part|of|the|first|congression|district|he
has|been|a|deleg|to|the|various|convent|of|his|parti|and|is|a|recog
nize|leader|in|it|rank|he|has|long|been|a|faith|member|of|the|presbi
terian|church|for|eleven|year|serv|in|it|board|of|truste|and|has|also
been|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|for|a|number|of|year|thus|in
various|way|he|has|aid|in|the|progress|of|the|communiti|in|materi
polit|social|and|moral|line|and|is|one|of|the|most|valu|citizen|of
elmer
on|the|25th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|kandl
and|miss|anna|langley|daughter|of|illiam|langley|who|was|a|represen
tativ|of|one|of|the|old|famili|of|the|township|they|becam|the|parent
of|ten|children|six|of|whom|are|live|as|follow|sarah|e|a|resid|of
atlant|citi|mathia|sl|of|philadelphia|william|l|who|is|serv|as
assist|postmast|in|elmer|and|harri|o|ada|c|and|carri|c|all|at
home|such|in|brief|is|the|histori|of|one|of|the|well|known|and|high
esteem|citizen|of|elmer|whose|devot|to|the|public|welfar|and|fidel
to|the|duti|of|busi|and|privat|life|have|won|him|the|regard|of|all|with
whom|he|has|associ
dr|tho|ia|f|gifford
the|histori|of|this|popular|young|dentist|of|woodburi|gloucest
counti|is|well|worth|record|in|a|work|of|this|natur|not|onli|becaus
it|is|a|credit|to|the|man|himself|but|also|becaus|it|may|serv|as|an|exampl
co|gressiox|district|of|nejv|jersey|two hundred and fifty-one
and|incenti|e|to|tlie|young|men|who|are|determin|to|conquer|all|ob
stacl|in|their|va|to|success|in|life|dr|gifford|was|born|in|glassboro
xew|jersey|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|the|son|of|d|l|giiiford|the|latter|was|of
english|descent|and|was|born|in|atlant|counti|new|jersey|when|quit
a|lad|he|went|to|glassboro|and|there|learn|the|trade|of|glassblow|in
which|occup|he|is|still|engag|he|is|a|man|of|much|forc|of|char
acter|and|has|taken|an|activ|part|in|the|improv|of|the|town|i|articu
lar|in|the|widen|of|the|street|re|is|liber|in|his|contribut|to
all|good|caus|is|a|lead|odd|fellow|was|for|mani|year|the|treasur
of|the|glassblow|union|and|is|now|it|presid|he|has|repres
it|at|sever|nation|convent|of|the|union|he|was|marri|in|cam
den|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|to|miss|harriet|smith|of|glassboro|of|their|four|children
onli|two|are|live|the|subject|of|this|sketch|and|a|daughter|name|eva
alenda
dure|his|earli|boyhood|dr|gifford|attend|the|common|school|and
laid|the|foundat|of|a|good|educ|at|the|age|of|fourteen|howev
it|becam|necessari|for|him|to|enter|the|rank|of|the|wageearn|and|for
sever|year|he|was|employ|in|the|whitney|glass|work|at|first|he
made|mold|and|then|learn|the|trade|of|machinist|and|faith|perform
all|the|duti|requir|of|him|but|this|career|did|not|satisfi|his|ambit
or|desir|for|knowledg|and|he|determin|to|fit|himself|for|anoth|sphere
in|life|throughout|the|last|three|year|of|his|work|at|his|trade|he|attend
the|night|school|of|the|young|men|s|christian|associ|and|the|spen
cerian|busi|colleg|at|philadelphia|to|do|this|he|was|oblig|to|take
a|train|everi|night|at|philadelphia|a|distanc|of|eighteen|mile|and|return
so|as|to|be|at|his|place|of|work|in|the|morn|one|can|imagin|at|what|a
sacrific|of|eas|and|rest|this|was|accomplish
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|this|persist|young|man|becam|a|student|in|the|pennsyl
vania|colleg|of|dental|surgeri|at|which|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|as
a|further|proof|of|his|energi|and|courag|it|may|be|state|that|dure|the
summer|vacat|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|work|as|a|conductor|on|an|atlant|citv
trolley|car|and|probabl|made|himself|as|popular|in|this|capac|as|in|other
place|as|his|car|was|credit|with|turn|in|more|money|than|anv|other
car|on|the|line|dure|a|part|of|his|time|in|colleg|he|took|charg|of
the|practic|of|one|of|the|professor|he|was|in|the|offic|of|dr|s|t|beal
jr|and|dr|rupert|beal|eleven|sixteen|girard|street|philadelphia|two|year|dr
rupert|beal|lectur|and|demonstr|in|the|penn|colleg|of|dental
surgeri|dr|s|t|beal|jr|is|a|son|of|dr|s|t|beal|sr|deceas|who
was|one|of|the|number|to|start|the|first|dental|colleg|in|philadelphia|the
second|dental|colleg|in|the|world|dr|rupert|beal|is|a|son|of|dr|s|t
two hundred and fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
beal|jr|two|of|tlie|best|known|practition|in|philadelphia|while|in
colleg|dr|gifford|was|a|member|of|the|c|n|pierc|dental|societi|and
was|one|of|the|organ|of|the|colleg|branch|of|the|young|men|s|chris
tian|associ|and|of|the|colleg|glee|club|he|was|the|first|student
mark|oft|in|the|colleg|work|of|the|last|year|at|colleg|he|belong|to
the|state|dental|societi|the|south|jersey|dental|societi|the|gloucest
counti|medic|societi|the|state|medic|societi|and|the|odd|fellow|and
is|activ|in|all|public|enterpris|a|most|genial|and|companion|young
gentleman|and|a|great|favorit|in|societi
in|his|profess|dr|gifford|has|attain|a|rare|degre|of|excel
and|command|one|of|the|best|practic|in|south|jersey|with|a|continua
tion|of|the|industri|energi|and|persever|he|has|hitherto|shown|he|can
not|fail|of|success|in|whatev|he|may|undertak
hon|thoma|m|ferrel
hon|thoma|m|ferrel|excongressman|of|glassboro|new|jersey|iji
reason|of|his|long|and|faith|nil|lic|servic|is|just|entitl|to|more|than
a|pass|notic|in|this|connect|in|record|the|biographi|of|men|it
becom|a|pleasur|as|well|as|a|duti|to|chronicl|the|thing|perform|jy
the|subject|for|other|as|well|as|for|his|own|person|lienefit
sir|ferrel|was|born|in|glassboro|new|jersey|june|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|his|father
was|jame|ferrel|a|nativ|of|port|elizabeth|cumberland|counti|new|jer
sey|the|grandfath|also|was|jame|ferrel|and|he|was|born|in|england
and|had|both|scotch|and|english|blood|in|his|vein|he|settl|in|mon
mouth|counti|new|jersey|and|follow|mercantil|busi|he|was|a
captain|in|the|time|of|the|revolutionari|war|and|a|promin|figur|in|that
fierc|struggl|for|liberti|jame|ferrel|the|father|of|our|subject|move|at
an|earli|day|to|gloucest|counti|settl|at|fislerill|now|clayton|he
made|pot|for|the|anneal|furnac|then|in|oper|and|later|in|life
follow|farm|he|was|for|a|long|time|the|supervisor|of|highway|a
man|of|excel|judgment|and|full|of|generous|good|deed|he|was|an|ardent
methodist|and|for|man|vear|was|one|of|the|church|offic|he|marri
emelin|durr|the|daughter|of|alexand|durr|of|philad|hia|pennsyl
vania|our|subject|now|resid|on|the|veri|spot|where|was|built|the|resi
denc|of|the|first|glassmak|of|america|and|his|father|was|an|expert|at
make|the|peculiar|pot|in|which|glass|is|melt|mr|jame|ferrel|jr
die|januar|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|the|good|wife|still|suri|age|eighti|year|of
coxgression|district|of|ixew|jersey|two hundred and fifty-three
their|seven|children|three|are|live|joseph|our|subject|and|benjamin|t
all|live|at|glassboro
bear|more|direct|on|the|career|of|our|subject|let|it|be|said|that|he
had|quit|a|struggl|to|gain|an|educ|he|went|to|the|common|school
and|at|a|verv|earli|age|had|to|work|in|the|glass|factori|he|began|to|work
at|glassmak|when|onli|sixteen|year|of|age|and|continu|at|it|as|an
apprentic|until|he|was|twentyon|b|this|time|know|the|busi|thor
ough|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|was|elect|presid|of|the|hollowwar|glass|worker
associ|of|the|unit|state|hold|that|ofific|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|polit
thoma|m|ferrel|afliat|with|the|democrat|parti|he|serv|as|a
township|committeeman|for|three|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|went|to|the|legislatur
receiv|a|larg|major|of|the|ote|cast|in|a|veri|strong|repullican|dis
trict|he|was|bitter|oppos|all|over|the|countri|by|the|manufactur
on|account|of|his|have|been|presid|of|the|abov|name|associ
they|put|up|a|glassblow|to|beat|him|but|fail|it|was|mr|ferrel|who
organ|and|put|on|a|perman|basi|the|druggistwar|glassblow
union|of|the|unit|state|and|canada|which|has|two|hundr|branch
he|was|also|the|author|of|the|weight|list|provid|that|the|size|shall|not
control|but|the|weight|and|this|principl|establish|by|him|now|govern|the
trade|and|fix|the|rate|of|sale|as|well|as|the|price|paid|the|blower|mr|fer
rell|was|reelect|to|the|legislatur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|was|sent|to|the
senat|where|he|champion|mani|import|measur|and|introduc|mani
bill|for|the|benefit|of|the|workingmen|and|his|influenc|was|felt|in|l|oth|tlie
upper|and|lower|hous|have|serv|well|in|the|capac|of|a|legisl
he|was|nomin|and|elect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|to|a|seat|in|congress|where|he|serv
one|term|the|first|claus|of|the|present|law|restrict|foreign|labor|brought
to|this|countrv|under|contract|was|introduc|by|him|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|was
appoint|the|collector|of|intern|revenu|for|the|first|district|of|new|jersey
and|held|this|offic|for|four|and|one|half|year|after|which|he|had|charg|for
four|year|of|the|sink|fund|of|the|state|of|new|jersey|in|the|state|con
vention|of|one thousand, nine hundred|he|was|elect|one|of|the|deleg|at|larg|to|the|kansa
citi|nation|convent|by|a|unanim|vote|everi|counti|in|the|state
place|him|in|nomin
in|busi|he|is|now|connect|with|the|woodburi|glass|work|he
has|been|a|member|of|the|glassboro|board|of|educ|for|mani|year|and
has|been|it|presid|as|well|as|veri|activ|in|it|affair|and|in|it|reorganiza
tion|he|has|been|a|busi|man|of|affair|but|never|neglect|the|higher
thing|those|which|pertain|to|religi|life|and|duti|he|has|been|a|mem
ber|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|sinc|he|was|fourteen|year|of|age
and|has|been|an|activ|worker|a|classlead|and|record|steward
two hundred and fifty-four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
great|interest|in|sundayschool|work|he|has|serv|activ|here|has
been|the|superintend|and|fill|other|offic|in|this|sphere|in|lodg
connect|he|stand|high|he|belong|to|the|mason|and|odd|fellow
order|has|been|the|master|of|his|mason|lodg|and|nobl|grand|of|the
xew|jersey|state|grand|lodg|of|the|odd|fellow
like|most|sensibl|men|our|worthi|subject|believ|in|the|valu|of|a
good|home|presid|over|by|a|truli|good|wife|he|was|marri|on|august
twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|to|miss|emma|t|stanger|the|daughter|of|richard|g|stanger|of
an|old|and|high|respect|pioneer|famili|of|this|section|their|home|is
bless|with|one|child|emma
in|review|this|busi|man|s|life|one|hard|know|where|to|award|the
most|prais|his|life|from|verv|boyhood|has|been|crowd|full|of|labor|of
hand|and|head|and|heart|for|the|better|of|the|toil|mass|all|of
whom|are|his|firm|friend|it|should|here|be|said|to|his|credit|that|it|was|by
his|influenc|that|the|legislatur|of|his|commonwealth|enact|the|law|do
away|with|the|storeord|shinplast|and|passbook|system|one
of|his|crown|work|is|the|establish|of|a|nation|labor|bureau|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|repres|assembl|no|seven hundred and ninety-nine|knight|of|labor|at|their|general
assembl|at|detroit|michigan|and|has|ever|work|for|the|good|of|this
order|it|matter|not|where|one|find|this|gentleman|he|is|the|same|thor
ough|thought|painstak|man|ever|readi|to|befriend|the|poor|and|op
press|inde|the|world|has|by|far|too|few|of|such|royal|charact|among
the|rank|and|file|of|it|busi|worker|he|stand|in|the|front|rank|of|the
plain|peopl|of|the|land|where|selfish|abound|no|such|generous
type|of|manhood|can|be|found|shine|forth|in|glorious|l|ril|ianci
samuel|schurch
this|gentleman|is|serv|as|the|tax|collector|at|dcean|citi|wlier|for
some|year|he|has|occupi|posit|of|public|trust|alway|discharg|his
duti|in|a|capabl|and|prompt|manner|thus|win|the|approv|of|all|his
fellow|townsmen|he|has|also|been|an|activ|factor|in|busi|affair|and
is|rank|among|the|repres|citizen|of|cape|may|counti
he|was|born|in|philadelphia|decemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|his|parent|be|samuel
and|sarah|pennick|schurch|back|to|switzerland|the|ancestri|of|the|fam
ili|is|trace|john|schurch|the|3atern|grandfath|was|a|resid|of
canton|bern|switzerland|and|on|cross|the|atlant|in|one thousand, eight hundred and six|accom
pani|by|his|wife|and|children|he|locat|in|germantown|pennsylvania
where|he|spent|the|remaind|of|his|life|he|was|a|lileach|by|trade|and
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and fifty-five
follow|that|busi|for|mani|year|dure|the|swissfrench|war|he
enter|the|servic|and|act|as|one|of|napoleon|s|bodi|guard|have
save|the|general|s|life|dure|a|sorti|in|that|war|he|held|a|membership
in|the|lutheran|church|and|in|that|faith|rear|his|famili|of|four|children
christian|peter|fanni|and|samuel|his|death|occur|at|the|age|of
nineti|year|and|his|wife|pass|away|at|the|advanc|age|of|ninetyf|year
the|famili|is|note|for|longev
samuel|schurch|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|canton|bern|in
one thousand, eight hundred and four|and|therefor|was|veri|young|when|brought|by|his|parent|to|the|new
world|he|becam|a|quill|and|ink|manufactur|and|was|one|of|the|last
to|engag|in|make|quill|close|out|that|busi|becaus|it|was|super
sede|by|the|manufactur|of|steel|pen|he|was|rear|in|germantown|and
learn|the|baker|s|trade|for|mani|year|he|resid|in|philadelphia|where
he|carri|on|busi|but|his|death|occur|in|bridgeboro|new|jersey
by|his|ballot|he|support|the|republican|parti|a|faith|member|of|the
german|reform|church|he|took|a|veri|activ|part|in|it|work|was|trea
urer|and|sundayschool|superintend|for|thirti|year|and|at|the|same|time
act|as|treasur|of|anoth|church|he|had|a|membership|relat|with|the
unit|benefici|societi|of|which|he|was|the|treasur|and|secretari|and
at|all|time|he|was|a|friend|to|the|poor|and|needi|withhold|his|support
from|none|whom|he|believ|to|be|worth|of|assist|at|his|death|his
pastor|said|of|him|that|he|was|one|of|the|most|honest|of|men|and|faith
exemplifi|the|teach|of|the|church|in|that|respect|he|had|act|as|a
member|of|the|home|guard|and|was|veri|enthusiast|in|regard|to|militari
matter|attempt|to|join|the|armi|dure|the|civil|war|but|as|he|had
pass|the|regul|age|his|servic|were|reject|he|marri|miss|sarah
pinnick|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|eleven|children|six|of|whom|are
live|adelin|wife|of|bernard|nieweg|john|who|marri|henrietta|nie
weg|georg|n|martha|charl|and|franc|the|father|of|these|children
die|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|at|the|age|of|seventysix|year|and|the|mother|who|was
born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and three|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|at|the|age|of|ninetythre|year
iir|schurch|of|this|review|acquir|his|educ|in|the|grammar
school|of|philadelphia|but|put|asid|his|textbook|at|the|age|of|sixteen
year|in|order|to|enter|his|countri|s|servic|he|was|one|of|the|boy|soldier
of|the|war|of|the|rebellion|becom|a|drummer|of|compani|c|fortieth
infantri|he|was|sent|to|the|frontier|at|williamsport|alarvland|remain
there|for|the|term|of|his|enlist|nine|month|subsequentlv|he|en
gage|in|the|manufactur|of|drum|for|the|govern|in|philadelphia|and
later|he|devot|his|energi|to|the|photograph|busi|for|four|year
be|connect|with|his|brother|in|that|enterpris|at|scranton|pennsvl
two hundred and fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
vania|subsequ|he|was|associ|wit|his|father|in|the|manufactur
of|quill|and|ink|they|also|dealt|in|stationeri|and|later|he|handl|butcher
suppli|carri|on|oper|in|that|line|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|when|he
bought|out|his|father|s|busi|and|admit|his|brother|william|to|the
partnership|they|conduct|the|enterpris|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|when|mr|samuel
schurch|sold|out|to|his|brother|and|remov|to|butler|counti|nebraska
where|he|engag|in|stock|farm|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|in|that|year|he|return|to
the|east|locat|at|ocean|citi|where|he|follow|carpent|and|also
conduct|the|bellevu|bath|hous|the|largest|bath|hous|on|the|beach
situat|between|seventh|and|eighth|street|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was|elect|tax
collector|and|treasur|fill|that|offic|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|when|he|was|again
chosen|tax|collector|sinc|which|time|he|has|been|the|incumb|of|that
posit|in|addit|to|his|ofifici|duti|he|also|conduct|a|summer|ijoarcl
inghous|he|is|the|owner|of|a|number|of|lot|at|ocean|citi
on|the|29th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|mr|schurch|wed|mari|emili
hein|a|daughter|of|loui|hein|they|have|had|seven|children|georg
deceas|bertha|wife|of|frederick|s|carter|a|bricklay|by|whom|she
has|one|child|ethel|sarah|deceas|helen|louisa|charl|edward|har
riet|matti|and|edna|xugusta|mr|schurch|belong|to|the|mason|fra
terniti|hold|membership|in|st|paul|lodg|no|four hundred and eighty-one|in|philadelphia
also|in|palestin|chapter|no|two hundred and forty|r|a|m|he|belong|to|the|junior
order|of|unit|merican|mechan|at|ocean|citi|and|former|was|con
nect|wit|that|organ|in|the|state|of|his|birth|his|polit|support
is|given|the|republican|part|and|he|labor|earnest|to|promot|it|growth
and|insur|it|success|at|all|time|he|has|manifest|the|same|loyalti|to|his
duti|of|citizenship|as|when|he|follo|l|the|old|fag|to|the|south|in|the
civil|war
dr|m|j|pald
the|name|of|dr|pald|was|for|mani|year|a|household|one|in|dare
town|and|surround|countri|and|none|knew|him|but|to|love|and|honor
him
he|was|born|in|philadelphia|pennsylvania|march|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|a|son|of
theopoli|pald|who|was|a|nativ|of|daretown|new|jersey|the|his
tori|of|the|pald|in|this|countrj|goe|back|to|coloni|day|the|fam
ilv|now|have|in|their|possess|parchment|deed|for|larg|tract|of|land|in
buck|counti|pennsylvania|and|salem|counti|new|jersey|and|also|for
lot|in|philadelphia|date|as|far|back|as|one thousand, six hundred and forty-eight|isaac|pald|an|uncl|of
the|subject|of|this|sketch|was|a|soldier|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|theopoli|paid
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and fifty-seven
ing|was|a|selfmad|man|he|went|to|philadelphia|earli|in|life|and|as|a|boy
enter|the|employ|of|the|firm|of|taylor|johnson|of|that|citi|which|was
afterward|chang|to|taylor|pald|when|he|was|taken|in|as|a|partner
in|philadelphia|m|j|pald|pass|his|boyhood|day|attend|the
common|school|until|he|was|twelv|year|old|he|then|went|to|mount
aaron|seminari|at|norristown|pennsylvania|and|later|to|the|popular
school|at|mount|holli|take|up|the|studi|of|medicin|he|enter|the
univers|of|pennsylvania|where|he|graduat|with|the|degre|of|m|d
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|after|his|graduat|dr|pald|came|down|to|daretown|to|the
old|homestead|which|had|been|bought|by|the|famili|for|a|countri|place|and
here|open|an|ofific|and|enter|upon|his|profession|career|a|career
which|was|attend|with|mark|success|and|the|untim|end|of|which
brought|sorrow|to|all|the|peopl|of|the|town|and|adjac|countri|decem
ber|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|while|cross|the|railroad|track|at|woodstown|five|mile
from|his|home|he|was|struck|by|a|pass|train|his|hors|be|kill|and
he|be|thrown|some|distanc|and|injur|to|such|an|extent|that|he|die
soon|afterward
dr|pald|wa|not|onli|a|skill|physician|and|surgeon|but|also
was|an|allround|gentleman|in|everi|sens|of|the|word|his|fine|person
appear|togeth|with|his|scholar|attain|his|veri|largeheart
natur|and|his|charm|of|manner|made|him|a|favorit|with|all|old|and|young
alik|while|he|was|devot|to|his|profess|and|was|a|member|of|variott
medic|organ|he|found|time|for|other|matter|and|was|alway|readi
to|give|his|support|to|ani|worthi|public|enterpris|he|was|for|a|time|the
presid|of|the|agricultur|associ|which|held|it|meet|at|wood
town|for|year|he|was|interest|in|farm|oper|make|a|specialti
of|the|stock|busi|keep|the|choicest|of|fine|cattl|and|hors|and
perhap|did|more|than|ani|other|man|to|give|the|counti|the|reput|it
has|for|tine|stock|in|both|educ|and|church|matter|he|was|activ
and|influenti|be|a|member|of|the|congreg|of|the|presbyterian
church|and|one|of|it|liber|support|for|year|he|was|a|member|of|the
daretown|school|board|his|larg|practic|took|him|for|mile|into|the|coun
tri|through|sunshin|and|rain|and|he|never|stop|to|ask|whether|it|was
to|the|bedsid|of|the|rich|or|the|poor|he|was|call|ever|give|to|both|his
best|effort|manv|there|are|among|his|patient|who|can|testifi|to|his|gen
eros|and|his|untir|energi
the|term|devot|husband|and|love|father|truli|appli|to|him
he|was|marri|februari|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|to|miss|helen|gerrish|a|daughter|of
john|c|gerrish|of|philadelphia|mrs|pald|like|the|doctor|belong|to
a|familv|long|resid|in|this|countri|she|trace|her|ancestri|to|revolu
two hundred and fifty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ticnari|stock|to|dr|and|ir|pald|were|born|eight|children|name
john|g|and|theodor|twin|walter|e|mose|j|henri|s|georg|li
josephin|and|margaretta
smith|bilderback
smith|bilderback|is|a|well|known|and|high|respect|citizen|of|salem
salem|counti|new|jersey|and|descend|from|a|long|line|of|ancestor|who
made|their|home|in|salem|counti|the|first|one|have|come|from|sweden
he|is|a|son|of|thoma|and|sarah|duboi|bilderback|and|was|born|in|the
villag|of|auoway|this|counti|septemb|ten|eighteen|nineteen|his|grandfath|was|a
lifelong|resid|of|pittsgrov|township|where|he|die|befor|the|hnh|of
our|subject|his|children|were|richard|samuel|martha|and|thoma|the
father|of|our|subject|samuel|s|daughter|hannah|marri|adam|smith|a
morocco|dresser|of|philadelphia
thoma|bilderback|was|born|septemb|three|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-seven|in|pittsgrov|township
and|learn|the|carpent|s|trade|which|he|follow|throughout|his|activ
busi|career|the|greater|part|of|his|life|was|pass|in|alloway|but|sev
eral|year|befor|his|death|he|suffer|a|stroke|of|paralysi|which|left|him|so
disabl|that|he|was|forc|to|retir|from|activ|labor|and|move|with|his
famili|to|salem|where|his|last|ten|year|were|spent|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight
in|his|sixtysecond|year|he|was|a|democrat|and|took|an|intellig|interest
in|the|success|of|his|parti|to|which|he|contribut|in|no|uncertain|manner
he|held|a|number|of|local|ofific|includ|that|of|freehold|also|have
a|seat|in|the|legisl|hall|of|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|he|was|an|ardent|advo
cate|of|the|democraci|as|expound|by|jackson|he|unit|with|the|bap
tist|church|of|alloway|and|later|was|associ|with|the|first|baptist|church
of|salem|and|was|a|man|of|lofti|principl|and|high|ideal|he|first|wed
miss|sarah|duboi|who|becam|the|mother|of|our|subject|four|children
were|born|to|them|henrietta|the|eldest|born|in|one hundred and eighty-one|seven|marri|frederick
knaufft|a|morocco|merchant|of|new|york|citi|smith|bilderback|was|the
second|child|john|the|third|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|marri|elizabeth|sick
ler|he|was|a|veteran|of|the|war|of|the|rebellion|and|a|carpent|of|salem
where|he|die|amanda|die|in|infanc|the|mother|die|in|her|thirtysixth
year|and|the|father|place|at|the|head|of|his|motherless|household|lrs
phoeb|walker|peck|by|this|union|there|were|five|children|sarah|who
marri|richard|waddington|of|elsinboro|hannah|and|thoma|both|of
whom|die|in|infanc|phoeb|ann|who|marri|william|wilkinson|of
connecticut|ellen|augusta|who|marri|tame|s|gibbon|of|philadel
yo|irnlyrk|cyoum
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and fifty-nine
phia|the|third|wife|nee|eunic|lawrenc|also|had|five|children|hannah
who|marri|thoma|mccrea|of|delawar|emma|who|die|in|childhood
thoma|who|fought|in|the|civil|war|but|die|in|earli|life|georg|who
marri|miss|tamar|lewi|of|delawar|and|mari|who|die|in|infanc
smith|bilderback|was|educ|in|the|iav|school|of|alloway|imder|the
tutorship|of|v|w|wood|a|well|known|and|popular|instructor|of|that|day
later|he|was|under|the|instruct|of|jonathan|l|brown|of|the|same|place
he|left|school|when|he|was|nineteen|to|learn|the|trade|of|carpent|serv|a
regular|apprenticeship|to|his|father|and|anoth|to|empson|hain|who
had|a|splendid|reput|as|a|skill|mechan|while|work|with|him
they|complet|the|methodist|episcop|church|edific|at|sharptown|soon
afterward|he|enter|into|partnership|with|his|father|the|firm|be|known
as|thoma|bilderback|son|and|continu|to|do|contract|and|build
until|the|break|out|of|the|civil|war|they|were|master|workmen|and|their
servic|were|in|demand|all|through|that|section|of|the|countri
on|octob|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|enlist|for|three|year|servic|in|the|ninth|new
jersey|regiment|compani|l|under|captain|henri|chew|the|compani
was|in|camp|at|olden|trenton|and|mr|bilderback|was|detail|at|onc
as|the|regiment|commissari|sergeant|have|charg|of|the|suppli|of|the
regiment|this|was|a|noncommiss|offic|superior|in|rank|to|lieuten
and|he|serv|in|that|capac|for|two|year|until|he|contract|a|fever|and
was|oblig|to|return|home|on|furlough|to|recuper|his|strength|he|again
enlist|in|compani|f|thirtyfourth|regiment|under|captain|henri|reed
and|was|appoint|as|second|lieuten|under|the|first|enlist|he|was
in|the|burnsid|expedit|and|for|three|week|lay|olt|cape|hattera|in|a
terribl|storm|in|which|mani|vessel|were|sunk|and|great|loss|of|life|was
suffer|they|also|lost|much|of|their|suppli|caus|great|depriv
he|had|mani|narrow|escap|was|at|the|battl|of|roanok|island|at|white
hall|and|numer|other|engag|the|regiment|was|first|sent|to|camp
on|bladenburg|pike|near|washington|d|c|where|they|remain|until
januari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|thej|were|then|assign|to|the|seventh|brigad|in|general
burnsid|s|corp|and|went|to|annapoli|maryland|where|on|januari|nine
they|embark|for|north|carolina|their|oper|be|confin|to|the
state|of|north|and|south|carolina|and|georgia|they|were|then|assign
to|the|second|brigad|casey|s|divis|and|later|to|the|first|brigad|sec
ond|divis|eighteenth|armi|corp|serv|in|mani|differ|brigad
and|sever|corp|he|was|discharg|at|columbus|kentuckv|april|twenty-six
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|on|account|of|physic|abil|and|return|home|to|take|you|five|the|duti
of|privat|life|which|had|been|temporarili|abandon|for|those|of|patriot
smith|bilderback|and|martha|r|stretch|were|unit|in|the|holv|bond
two|o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|matrimoni|on|march|five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|she|was|a|daughter|of|isaac|stretch|a
blacksmith|of|auoway|creek|who|diefl|at|the|age|of|thirtysix|year|they
had|three|children|mortim|who|was|born|april|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and|die|juli
three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|edmund|smith|who|was|born|septemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|was|drown
in|salem|creek|august|four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|martha|virginia|who|was|born|januari
twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|who|marri|the|rev|edwin|h|bronson|the|pastor|of|block
ley|baptist|church|in|philadelphia|their|children|are|william|paul|de
ceas|katharin|virginia|vera|millic|and|phillip|elliot|the|rev
bronson|pass|to|his|reard|julv|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|sinc|which|time|his|widow|has
made|her|home|with|her|father|and|been|employ|as|a|teacher|in|the|public
school|after|return|from|the|war|he|engag|in|the|white|and|press
busi|at|salem|he|is|not|now|in|activ|busi|his|honesti|and|in
tegriti|are|beyond|cjuestion|he|was|a|democrat|befor|the|war|but|has
sinc|found|the|republican|principl|to|conform|more|near|to|his|view|of
right|he|has|serv|in|a|number|of|local|oflic|was|the|clerk|of|the|town
ship|of|alloway|creek|three|year|the|constabl|for|that|township|tax|collec
tor|member|of|the|board|of|freehold|three|year|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|was|elect
to|the|state|legislatur|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|came|to|salem|and|serv|as
freehold|four|year|he|was|also|a|truste|of|the|counti|almshous|and
repres|salem|on|the|lioard|in|eighteen thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|i|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|to|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|is|also
a|zealous|member|of|the|baptist|church|in|which|he|has|ijeen|both|deacon
and|truste|fratern|he|belong|to|the|knight|of|pythia|and|the|ind
pendent|order|of|odd|fellow|he|is|also|a|member|of|johnson|post|g|a
r|no|sixty-nine|with|which|he|unit|fifteen|year|ago|and|has|fill|all|the|ofific
in|the|gift|of|the|organ|he|take|the|greatest|interest|in|all|the|affair
of|the|grand|armi|of|the|republ|attend|the|state|meet|depart
ment|encamp|etc|he|is|a|genial|pleasant|gentleman|whose|life|has
been|fill|with|interest|data|and|it|is|a|privileg|as|well|as|pleasur|to
hear|him|recount|some|of|the|interest|featur|as|he|recal|them
jame|monro|chester
the|ancestor|of|this|gentleman|came|to|cape|may|counti|dure|colon
ial|day|and|the|name|has|sinc|figur|promin|in|connect|with|the
annal|of|this|section|of|the|state|it|is|easi|to|pictur|the|patern|great
grandfath|joseph|chester|in|the|coloni|dress|of|the|period|superintend
ing|his|farm|of|three|hundr|acr|the|place|be|oper|with|the|primi
tive|implement|in|use|at|the|time|he|was|born|in|eldora|cape|may
counti|and|throughout|his|life|was|a|gentleman|farmer|win|through
coxgression|district|of|xejv|lersey|two hundred and sixty-one
the|cultiv|of|the|field|a|comfort|compet|he|gave|his|polit
support|to|the|democracv|anl|was|an|adher|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|both|he|and|his|wife|die|when|eightv|year|of|age|the|grand
father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|denni|township|cape|may|counti|and|for
sever|year|was|a|sea|captain|command|vessel|engag|in|the|coast
ing|trade|at|the|time|of|his|death|he|resid|in|goshen|indiana|and|durmg
the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|serv|as|a|member|of|the|home|guard|in|earli|man
hood|he|gave|his|support|to|the|oldtim|republican|parti|hi|which|jefferson
and|other|were|leader|later|he|support|the|principl|ot|the|then|newli
organ|democrat|parti|and|in|religi|belief|he|was|a|methodist|con
tinu|his|allegi|to|the|faith|in|which|he|had|been|rear|he|was
twice|marri|and|by|the|first|union|had|three|children|john|mari|and
richard|the|last|name|becom|the|husband|of|eliza|conov|the
mother|of|these|children|die|and|the|father|afterward|marri|man|rig
ain|the|children|of|the|second|union|were|william|a|sea|captain|who
marri|jane|thompson|and|had|four|children|melvin|adelin|julia|and
euphrat|jame|the|second|of|the|famili|eleanor|who|lecam|the|wife
of|rural|feister|a|farmer|and|their|children|were|john|lari|j|elizabeth
and|kate|charl|who|marri|salli|hawkin|and|made|farm|his|hfe
work|reuben|jeremiah|and|samuel|who|never|marri|and|mari|who
liecam|the|wife|of|thoma|h|swain|a|sea|captain|resid|at|goshen|and
their|children|were|florenc|lizzi|salli|hatti|edward|and|lilli|the
patern|grandfath|of|our|subject|die|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year
jame|chester|the|father|of|the|subject|of|this|sketch|was|born|de
cember|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|obtain|his|educ|in|the|common|school|of|cape
may|countv|ancl|for|thirtyf|year|follow|the|sea|be|engag|in|the
coast|trade|he|own|three|vessel|includ|the|georg|e|brown
he|also|engag|in|cut|and|ship|cordwood|and|cedar|and|plain
lumber|a|zealous|republican|in|polit|he|has|ever|taken|a|deep|interest
in|the|growth|and|success|of|his|parti|long|a|member|of|the|lason
fratern|he|former|affili|with|cannon|lodg|at|seavill|and|after
ward|becam|connect|with|arbutus|lodg|at|cape|may|court|hous
he|is|also|an|honorari|member|of|the|order|of|mechan|dure|the|civil
war|he|serv|for|nine|month|in|the|union|armi|enlist|in|compani|i
twentyfifth|new|jersey|lifantri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|the|regiment|was|assign|to
the|armi|of|the|potomac|and|particip|in|the|battl|of|gettysburg|later
it|was|sent|to|sulyolk|virginia|where|it|remain|on|patrol|duti|and|also
built|bridg|and|perform|other|necessari|servic|t|the|close|of|the
war|mr|chester|was|muster|out|at|beverley|new|jersey|and|is|now|a
member|of|the|john|iecray|post|no|forty|g|r|of|cape|may|citi|he
2t2|biograph|histori|of|the|first
marri|iiari|jone|and|six|children|liae|been|ijorn|to|them|e|a|d|born
novemli|i8|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|marri|l|j|alccauley|of|the|firm|of|iccauley|broth
er|coal|dealer|of|philadelphia|and|their|children|are|samuel|and|eva
alfretta|born|march|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|is|the|wife|of|dr|jerom|messeng|a|practic
ing|physician|of|philadelphia|they|have|two|children|chester|and
charl|and|make|their|home|in|collingwood|pennsylvania|eugen
benton|born|may|three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|resid|in|seattl|washington|jame|monro
is|the|next|in|the|order|of|age|lewi|s|born|novemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|is|a
grocer|and|postmast|at|sea|isl|citi|henri|ellwood|the|youngest|die
in|infanc|the|father|of|this|famili|is|live|at|the|age|of|seventyf
year|while|the|mother|has|attain|the|age|of|sixtyf
the|matern|ancestri|of|mr|chester|is|equal|ancient|and|honor
his|greatgrandfath|on|his|mother|s|side|was|an|englishman|who|on
leav|the|merri|isl|locat|at|port|elizaljeth|new|jersey|where|he|was
connect|with|the|trade|interest|as|a|sea|captain|he|had|two|children
samuel|and|loretta|the|latter|the|wife|of|thoma|ferguson|a|retir
farmer|who|serv|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|samuel|jone|the|grandfath|of
mr|chester|resid|in|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|where|he|follow
the|occup|of|farm|his|polit|ballot|was|cast|in|support|of|the
republican|parti|he|marri|martha|hewett|and|their|children|were|wal
ter|mari|salli|loretta|alfr|hezekiah|lorenzo|bella|hatti|and
genevra|the|grandfath|die|at|the|age|of|fiftynin|year|but|the|grand
mother|surviv|some|time|and|pass|away|at|the|age|of|seventytwo
jame|imonro|chester|was|born|in|goshen|cape|may|counti|august
eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|there|he|accjuir|his|educ|and|aftenvard|ship|befor|the
mast|be|the|captain|of|the|eno|nlayhew|for|nine|year|later|he|en
gage|in|the|milk|busi|for|four|year|and|for|five|year|effici|serv
as|postmast|at|sea|isl|citi|at|the|expir|of|that|period|he|came|to
ocean|citi|and|engag|in|the|realest|busi|and|he|has|been|con
nect|with|some|of|the|most|import|realti|transfer|that|have|been|made
here|he|buy|sell|and|improv|properti|and|has|erect|a|number|of
resid|he|has|purchas|as|mani|as|one|hundr|and|eighti|lot|and
in|connect|with|joseph|i|scull|he|purchas|four|hundr|and|eightysix
acr|of|land|lie|between|carson|s|inlet|the|atlant|ocean|and|carson|s
bay|this|was|purchas|of|the|charl|gandi|estat|and|was|the|largest
tract|transfer|in|recent|time|mr|chester|handl|a|larg|amount|of
properti|and|is|the|owner|of|two|store|and|dwell|and|has|erect|four
resid|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|ocean|citi|build|loan|asso
ciation|his|great|activitv|in|busi|has|brought|to|him|handsom|finan
cokgressioix|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and sixty-three
cial|return|and|he|is|deepli|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|up
build|of|his|adopt|counti
on|the|4th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|chester
and|miss|julia|h|duval|a|daughter|of|edward|duval|of|ocean|view
a|well|known|ovster|planter|and|their|union|has|been|blest|with|three|chil
dren|arthur|b|ralph|l|and|genevra|julia|mr|chester|is|a|member
of|ocean|citv|lodg|no|one hundred and seventy-one|f|a|m|and|of|the|odd|fellow|societi
he|vote|with|the|republican|parti|and|the|confid|repos|in|him|by
his|fellow|townsmen|is|indic|by|the|fact|that|he|serv|as|a|member|of
the|citi|council|of|sea|isl|citi|and|has|been|the|presid|of|the|council|at
ocean|citi|the|volum|and|import|of|the|busi|is|an|indic|of
his|high|stand|in|commerci|circl|and|tell|of|his|use|and|activ|life
all|thlit|he|has|he|has|acquir|through|his|own|effort|make|the|most|of
his|possibl|and|util|the|opportun|which|surround|his|path
lewi|s|chester
lewi|samuel|chester|was|born|novemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|at|goshen|cape
may|counti|is|a|son|of|jame|and|mari|a|jone|chester|and|a|brother|of
jame|monro|chester|in|connect|with|whose|histori|on|other|page|of
this|work|is|given|the|lineag|of|our|subject|mr|chester|acquir|his|lit
erari|educ|in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|town|also|attend|hart|s
grammar|school|in|philadelphia|and|prepar|for|his|busi|career|in
brvant|stratton|s|busi|colleg|on|put|asid|his|textbook|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|came|to|sea|isl|citi|at|which|time|the|place|contain|onli|fifti
hous|here|he|open|a|groceri|store|and|has|sinc|engag|in|busi
along|that|line|he|has|also|devot|his|energi|to|the|manag|of
realest|transfer|and|own|consider|properti|he|is|a|member|of
the|sea|isl|build|loan|associ|and|is|account|one|of|the|lead
factor|in|commerci|circl|he|has|been|call|to|public|offic|by|the
vote|of|the|peopl|and|has|render|most|effect|servic|in|the|posit|of
collector|and|treasur|where|he|serv|for|nine|year|on|the|ist|of|oc
tober|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|appoint|postmast|of|sea|isl|citi|in|which|posit
he|is|administ|the|busi|with|prompt|and|abil|he|has|ever
been|an|adher|of|the|republican|principl|and|his|belief|in|the|parti
prompt|his|activ|and|energet|effort|in|it|behalf|he|has|been|a|deleg
to|the|various|counti|and|congression|convent|and|is|a|recogn
leader|in|republican|rank
on|the|31st|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|mr|chester|led|to|the|marriag|altar|miss
two hundred and sixty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
irginia|b|smith|a|daughter|of|captain|henri|l|smith|who|is|now|con
nect|with|the|hfesav|station|at|sea|isl|citi|and|they|have|two|chil
dren|carolin|and|lewi|s|jr
edward|hick|phillip|ai|d
for|almost|a|third|of|a|centuri|dr|phillip|has|engag|in|the|practic|of
medicin|in|cape|may|a|period|in|which|there|has|been|ampl|time|and
opportun|to|test|his|abil|in|various|depart|of|the|profess|and
that|he|hold|rank|among|the|lead|practition|of|the|counti|stand|in
evid|of|his|skill|from|the|begin|his|patronag|has|steadili|in
creas|until|he|is|now|the|attend|physician|in|mani|of|the|best|hous
hold|of|cape|may|and|the|surround|countri|and|from|his|larg|practic
he|has|deriv|a|good|incom
the|doctor|was|born|in|middletown|township|at|neshamini|fall|buck
counti|pennsylvania|april|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|is|a|son|of|robert|and|naomi|gar
rison|phillip|he|is|descend|from|english|ancestri|who|were|connect
with|the|societi|of|friend|the|famili|have|been|found|in|america|by
two|brother|thoma|and|john|phillip|who|cross|the|atlant|the|former
take|up|his|abod|in|salisburi|township|buck|counti|while|the|latter
becam|a|resid|of|mercer|counti|new|jersey|the|doctor|is|of|the|fifth
generat|from|thoma|phillip|his|grandfath|thoma|phillip|was|born
in|salisburi|township|buck|counti|and|there|oper|a|gristmil|for|mani
year|he|was|a|member|of|the|hicksit|societi|of|friend|attend|the
salisburi|meet|he|wed|mari|eastburn|and|to|them|were|ijorn|the
follow|children|mose|aaron|thoma|david|robert|rachel|mari
mercia|and|one|son|who|die|in|earli|manhood|be|frozen|to|death|while
go|to|his|busi|one|morn|the|father|of|these|children|die|in
februari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|at|the|age|of|seventi|year|and|his|wife|pass|away|in
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|at|the|age|of|seventi
the|doctor|s|father|robert|phillip|was|born|in|salisburi|township
buck|counti|pennsylvania|june|i|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-seven|and|with|his|father|learn|the
miller|s|trade|he|afterward|oper|a|mill|in|the|state|of|new|york|later
carri|on|the|same|busi|in|trenton|new|jersey|and|subsequ|in
lambertsvill|new|jersey|where|he|conduct|the|pine|hope|mill|he
then|began|the|oper|of|a|mill|at|neshamini|fall|pennsylvania|and|on
sell|that|properti|remov|to|byberri|township|philadelphia|counti
where|he|built|a|mill|which|he|oper|until|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|he|then|sold|out|and
start|westward|he|made|his|wav|to|chicago|and|soon|afterward|r|ur
djoic
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and sixty-five
chase|a|farm|in|the|fox|river|valley|vhere|he|carri|on|agricultiu|pur
us|until|his|death|he|was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|f|endnd|a|n
honor|man|he|took|qnue|a|promin|part|you|pubhc|f
life|was|an|activ|advoc|of|the|antislaveri|movement|and|this|was
associ|with|the|renown|robert|purvi|he|was|also|a|be|h
iur|which|tri|mrs|chapman|for|the|murder|of|her|husband|at|andalusia
penn|ylvania|about|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|this|was|one|of|the|most|celebr|case|of|earh
dai|in|which|the|purport|son|of|a|spanish|y
tramp|was|convict|but|the|woman|was|acquit|mr
call|to|his|fnal|rest|januari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|when|more|than|nineti|jear|of|age
and|his|wife|pass|away|januari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|at|the|age|of|f|yseven|year
thev|were|the|parent|of|three|son|and|three|daughter|of|whom|the|doctor
is|the|eldest|willet|the|second|a|farmer|of|mchenri|counti|illinoi|mar
rie|miss|malinda|balch|and|their|children|were|fred|and|annetta|mam
marri|isaac|griswold|a|carpent|by|trade|who|edl|five|j
civil|war|and|was|the|chief|of|the|order|on|grant|s|stafif|at|the|battl|of
vicksburg|and|later|was|commiss|captain|after|the|war|he|remov
o|califorma|but|is|now|a|contractor|and|builder|o|se
in|his|familv|are|five|children|harriet|the|third|child|was|drown|hen
about|two|year|of|age|in|the|mill|race|run|through|the|yard|emma
the|fifth|child|of|robert|phillip|was|the|wife|of|william|sorter|now|de
ceas|a|blacksmith|and|ranch|owner|of|larkspur|colorado|by|whom|she
has|one|son|robert|she|afterward|marri|a|b|sear|of|detroi|ich
gan|now|of|lans|michigan|howard|a|farmer|hvmg|on|th|a|ml
homestead|in|mchenri|counti|illinoi|is|marri|and|has|two|ehiuhen
walter|and|robert
dr|phillip|whose|name|introduc|this|review|acquir|his|prelimman
educ|in|th|e|public|school|of|byberri|township|philadelphia|counti
pennsylvania|and|later|was|a|student|in|the|english|seminari|m|elgm|ih
noi|determin|to|make|the|practic|of|medicin|his|e|work|one|stu
medicin|in|the|new|york|medic|colleg|and|was|graduat|in|ei
vear|later|he|was|graduat|in|the|hahnemann|medic|colleg|n|phila
delphia|and|then|locat|in|cape|may|where|he|has|continu|main
tain|a|place|as|one|of|the|lead|repres|of|the|profess|m|he
counti|he|is|a|member|of|the|state|homeopath|medic|societi|and|the
west|jersev|medic|societi|of|which|he|is|now|the|honor|presid|he
is|also|a|manber|of|the|board|of|health|belong|to|the|build|loan|as
sociat|at|cape|may|and|was|one|of|the|organ|and|the|secretari|of|the
staten|island|build|loan|associ
the|doctor|was|marri|on|christma|day|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|to|miss|jenni|spin
two hundred and sixty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
niiig|a|daughter|of|john|spin|a|cattl|jroker|of|summit|new|jersey
and|they|had|one|child|russel|who|was|born|octolj|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|marri
lizzi|william|by|whom|he|has|four|children|bert|helen|russel|and
john|he|was|former|a|photograph|one|ut|is|now|engag|in|the|bicycl
busi|in|washington|d|c|mrs|phillip|die|decemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|the
doctor|afterward|marri|miss|anna|hugh|a|daughter|of|elli|hugh
a|farmer|of|cape|may|countv|thev|ha|e|four|children|alter|edward
albert|and|william
elli|hugh|the|father|of|mrs|phillip|was|born|juli|seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|and
die|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|was|the|son|of|thoma|h|hugh|who|was|born
in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|he|repres|the|first|congression|district|of
new|jersey|in|the|hous|of|repres|from|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|to|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|he|was|a
promin|member|and|one|of|the|truste|of|the|cold|spring|presbyterian
church|contract|for|and|rebuilt|the|present|brick|church|there|about|the
year|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|he|also|took|an|activ|part|in|the|becaus|of|temper|in|that
earli|day|he|had|five|children|thoma|p|elli|ellen|lydia|and|sarah
thoma|p|hugh|marri|mari|boon|of|salem|counti|and|had|one|son
benjamin|thoma|p|repres|the|counti|in|the|hous|of|assembl|for
one|term|he|was|also|the|sheriff|of|the|counti|serv|two|term|he
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|benjamin|his|son|marri|mari|wale|a|sister|of|eli|and
edmund|l|b|wale|m|d|who|was|a|promin|member|of|his|profess
and|held|a|number|of|public|posit|in|the|state|and|counti|elli|hugh
marri|sarah|higgin|and|had|two|children|elli|and|saiah|elli|marri
hester|ovam|and|rais|three|boy|and|two|girl|sarah|marri|dr|ran
dolph|marshal|and|they|had|five|boy|and|four|girl|dr|randolph|jr
and|dr|joseph|succeed|to|their|father|s|practic|at|his|death|benjamin
the|oldest|studi|medicin|but|prefer|anoth|call|and|has|been|in
the|mercantil|busi|he|repres|his|township|in|the|board|of|free
holder|for|a|number|of|year|elli|the|youngest|son|is|now|one thousand, nine hundred|a|mem
ber|of|the|legislatur|sarah|higgin|the|wife|of|elli|hugh|sr|die
and|he|marri|nanci|teal|and|of|this|marriag|were|born|eight|children
thoma|john|lydia|richard|smith|albert|martha|and|anni|the|wife
of|the|subject|of|our|sketch|of|the|other|children|of|thoma|h|hugh
ellen|marri|richard|s|ludlaw|who|built|and|was|the|proprietor|of|the
mansion|hous|at|cape|may|until|it|was|burn|they|had|no|children
lydia|marri|richard|edmund|and|the|rear|a|larg|number|of|children
sarah|marri|eli|wale|and|brought|up|sever|children|the|hugh
famili|have|all|been|promin|and|activ|in|all|good|work
of|various|civic|societi|the|doctor|is|a|valu|repres|he|be
long|to|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|the|knight|of|pythia|the
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and sixty-seven
good|templar|and|sinc|sixteen|year|of|age|has|been|identifi|with|tlie
son|of|temper|he|doe|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|becaus|of|tem
peranc|and|overthrow|the|liquor|traflfic|in|polit|he|was|former|a|re
publican|and|his|first|presidenti|vote|was|cast|for|john|p|hale|the|candi
date|of|the|freesoil|parti|he|now|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support
of|the|prohibit|parti|which|embodi|his|idea|on|the|temper|que
tion|he|is|a|member|of|the|swedenborgian|church|at|the|corner|of|twenti
second|and|chestnut|street|philadelphia|and|at|all|time|he|lend|his|sup
port|to|those|interest|which|tend|to|uplift|human|and|improv|the|con
dition|of|life|honor|and|upright|he|command|the|respect|of|all|wit
whom|he|come|in|contact|his|kind|manner|and|help|spirit|win|him
manv|friend
r|howard|thorn
this|gentleman|is|now|the|effici|postmast|at|ocean|citi|and|is|in
control|of|one|of|the|most|extens|enterpris|at|that|place|through|the
pass|year|he|has|ad|to|his|capit|by|the|care|conduct|of|his|mer
cantil|interest|and|enlarg|his|facil|to|meet|the|demand|of|the|con
stant|increas|trade|thus|becom|the|proprietor|of|one|of|the|largest
busi|hous|in|the|citi|which|he|make|his|home
mr|thorn|was|born|at|frankford|philadelphia|pennsylvania|june|twenty-three
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|his|parent|be|richard|h|and|rebecca|shallcross|thorn|seven
brother|by|the|name|of|thorn|came|to|america|at|an|earli|period|in|the
histori|of|this|countri|one|of|the|brother|settl|in|salem|counti|new
jersey|the|second|in|maryland|and|john|thorn|the|origin|ancestor|of|our
subject|took|up|his|abod|in|chesterfield|township|burlington|counti
new|jersey|where|he|follow|the|occup|of|farm|jame|came|over
with|lord|baltimor|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|also|bore|the|name|of
john|and|was|born|at|crosswick|burlington|counti|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|he|was
educ|in|the|school|of|bordentown|learn|the|potter|s|trade|and|en
gage|in|the|manufactur|of|potteri|in|crosswick|in|earli|life|but|subs
quentli|remov|to|frankford|philadelphia|where|he|manufactur|all
kind|of|earthenwar|there|he|spent|his|remain|day|his|death|occur
ring|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|at|the|age|of|sixtyseven|year|his|polit|support
was|given|the|whig|parti|and|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|was|a
faith|member|contribut|liber|to|it|support|and|regular|attend
it|servic|he|marri|miss|alari|thoma|whose|death|occur|at|the
age|of|sixtyfour|year|they|were|the|parent|of|the|follow|children
thoma|who|was|a|tailor|and|baker|marri|and|had|one|daughter|marv
two hundred and sixty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
e|siloam|t|was|the|second|of|the|famili|richard|was|the|next|younger
david|a|bricklay|marri|mari|wilson|and|their|children|were|sila|w
richard|hare|melvina|and|two|who|die|in|childhood|hannah|becam|the
wife|of|jame|g|glenn|a|saddler|of|philadelphia|and|their|children|were
edwin|t|charl|t|clara|t|milton|fanni|harri|and|loiicina|lari
anna|becam|the|wife|of|charl|t|home|a|master|painter|at|frankford
and|they|had|seven|children|charl|mari|ada|evadn|richard|lin
wood|t|maud|and|iren|susan|becam|the|wife|of|christian|s|ruth|a
master|mechan|and|foreman|of|the|blacksmith|shop|of|the|altoona|penn
sylvania|railroad|compani|by|whom|she|had|six|children|jame|bu
chanan|mari|susan|wilbur|linford|and|milton|margaret|the|youngest
of|the|famili|marri|william|macdonough|a|wood|turner|and|superin
tendent|of|an|umbrella|factori|by|whom|she|had|four|children|john|thorn
william|mari|and|frank
richard|h|thorn|the|father|of|our|su|ject|was|born|at|crosswick
burlington|counti|new|jersey|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|throughout|his|busi
ness|career|follow|contract|and|build|at|frankford|pennsylvania
and|execut|some|of|the|largest|contract|in|that|part|of|philadelphia|and
furnish|employ|to|a|larg|forc|of|workmen|he|exercis|his|right
of|franchis|in|support|of|the|democraci|he|marri|miss|re
becca|shallcross|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|eight|children|georg
bancroft|mari|deborah|who|die|at|the|age|of|nine|year|horac|st|clair
who|is|the|secretari|of|the|frankford|mutual|insur|compani|and
marri|ella|green|b|whom|he|had|two|children|josejh|s|and|walter
st|clair|warren|douglass|who|die|at|the|age|of|twentythre|year
richard|howard|joseph|shallcross|who|die|at|the|age|of|five|year|effi
grey|who|becam|the|wife|of|abel|d|scull|a|contractor|at|ocean|citi|by
whom|she|had|five|children|oliv|pearl|howard|thorn|morri|s|thoma
j|and|ruth|j|and|thoma|j|a|grocer|who|marri|ella|smith|the
father|of|these|children|was|call|to|his|final|rest|novemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|at|the
age|of|sixtysix|year|and|his|wife|who|was|born|may|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|ili|apvw
twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|town|r|howard|thorn|pursu|his
educ|until|the|age|of|fourteen|year|wdien|he|learn|the|carpent|s
trade|he|afterward|work|at|the|cabinetmak|s|trade|and|then|accept
a|clerkship|in|frankford|and|subsequ|he|master|the|millwright
trade|which|he|follow|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|that|vear|wit|his|arriv|in|ocean
citi|where|he|began|busi|on|a|small|scale|at|the|corner|of|asburi|avenu
and|eighth|street|carri|a|line|of|hardwar|and|housefurnish|good
his|straightforward|deal|his|systemat|busi|method|and|earnest
congressioh|district|of|neir|jersey|two hundred and sixty-nine
desir|to|pleas|his|patron|secur|to|him|a|constant|increas|patronag
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|bought|two|adjoin|lot|and|enlarg|his|store|by|build
ing|upon|them|at|differ|time|he|made|addit|and|improv|in
his|store|until|the|thorn|block|is|now|seventyeight|by|sixti|feet|and|three
stori|in|height|the|larg|store|build|in|which|the|postoftic|is|now
locat|was|erect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|for|a|furnitur|store|and|he|purchas|the|furni
ture|stock|and|fixtur|of|oliv|pierc|he|soon|built|up|a|good|trade|in
that|line|continu|enlarg|his|store|and|stock|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|he|erect
a|build|twentyeight|by|fiftysix|feet|and|three|stori|in|height|and|the
third|stori|is|occupi|by|the|mason|fratern|his|store|at|no|eight hundred and one|is
now|use|as|a|retail|cigar|establish|no|eight hundred and three|is|occupi|bv|his|mam
moth|hardwar|and|hous|furnish|stock|all|three|floor|be|util
and|the|store|be|valu|at|seventyf|hundr|dollar|and|no|eight hundred and five|is
occupi|by|the|postofific|mv|thorn|also|own|other|valuabl|properti|in
other|part|of|the|citi|and|is|account|a|lead|merchant|in|his|line|at
this|place|receiv|the|patronag|of|mani|of|the|summer|visitor|as|well|as
of|the|perman|resid|of|the|town|he|is|also|the|treasur|of|the|ocean
citi|build|loan|associ|a|posit|which|he|has|occujii|sinc
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight
mr|thorn|has|been|twice|marri|on|the|4th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|wed
alic|kirk|who|was|born|in|manchest|england|februari|six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|a
daughter|of|jame|and|alic|kirk|ier|father|was|a|skill|textil|worker
and|when|she|was|onli|six|week|old|he|brought|his|famili|to|the|new
orld|unto|mr|and|inir|thorn|were|born|two|chiklren|mari|shall
cross|and|ami|h|the|mother|die|april|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|on|the|20th|of|no
vember|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|mr|thorn|marri|lavina|eyr|smith|who|was|born|in
philadelphia|decemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|a|daughter|of|edwin|smith|of|ocean|citi
her|father|was|a|machinist|inventor|and|the|manag|of|sellar|machin
work|of|philadelphia|he|invent|file|tool|machineri|the|util|of|which
was|demonstr|by|it|adopt|in|mani|of|the|lead|manufactori
throughout|the|countri|he|was|also|a|member|of|mani|societi|w|as|the
founder|of|the|knight|of|birmingham|in|philadelphia|and|belong|to|the
knight|of|pythia|fratern|and|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|by
the|second|marriag|of|mr|thorn|there|is|one|child|howard|st|clair|who|is
now|in|school
mr|thorn|is|the|organ|of|the|lodg|of|the|zncient|order|of|unit
workmen|of|ocean|citi|and|was|it|first|repres|to|the|grand|lodg
he|is|also|a|member|of|the|royal|arcanum|the|improv|order|of|red
men|the|knight|of|pythia|and|the|mason|fratern|in|polit|he|is|a
democrat|and|serv|as|postmast|under|the|first|and|second|administr
two hundred and seventy|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|cleveland|be|still|the|incumb|in|the|oliic|through|the|appoint
ment|by|presid|cleveland|made|on|the|ist|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|administ
the|affair|of|the|postofific|with|the|same|businesslik|dispatch|that|char
acter|his|mercantil|interest|and|his|prompt|and|accuraci|have|won
him|the|highest|commend|of|all|he|is|a|promin|and|faith|mem
ber|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|has|held|oflfici|posi
tion|therein|be|now|the|chairman|of|the|financ|committe|he|has
given|his|support|to|measur|for|the|public|good|and|as|a|busi|man|he
possess|keen|discern|and|unflag|dilig|qualiti|which|have
enabl|him|to|acquir|a|handsom|compet
general|wrrex|p|edgartox
the|stori|of|but|few|live|is|more|replet|with|interest|dare|courag
and|distinguish|servic|than|is|that|of|general|warren|p|edgarton|who
alik|in|the|vari|field|of|literatur|militan|life|law|and|conspicu|public
offic|has|shown|mark|abil|and|rare|execut|power|his|is|anoth
case|of|a|new|england|call|into|the|most|arduous|and|respons|posi
tion|and|everywher|be|found|fulli|equal|to|the|occas
a|nativ|of|harvard|massachusett|born|may|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|the|son|of|john
and|mari|hayden|edgarton|he|was|rear|in|the|shadow|of|harvard|uni
versiti|and|from|earli|year|evinc|the|tast|of|a|student|his|ancestor
were|promin|particip|in|the|earli|battl|of|the|revolut|and|did
well|their|part|on|the|histor|battl|field|of|concord|and|lexington|gen
eral|edgarton|descend|from|the|old|english|famili|of|egerton|as|the|name
was|former|spell|which|first|appear|in|this|countri|as|resid|of
east|bridgewat|massachusett|the|same|town|where|dwelt|the|ancestor
of|william|cullen|bryant|there|was|an|edgarton|at|saybrook|as|earli
as|one thousand, six hundred and forty-five|the|patern|greatgrandfath|of|general|edgarton|was|john
edgarton|his|grandfath|was|leonard|edgarton|and|his|father|also|john
edgarton|the|latter|was|also|a|nativ|of|harvard|and|follow|the|voca
tion|of|contract|and|build|he|did|life|s|duti|well|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
at|a|hale|old|age|his|wife|die|mani|year|ago|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|three|of|their|four
children|are|now|live
general|edgarton|after|the|advantag|of|harvard|school|took|a|train
ing|cours|at|the|new|england|normal|school|at|lancast|massachusett
and|then|engag|in|teach|he|was|the|professor|of|oratori|and|rhetor
at|the|hudson|river|institut|and|claverack|colleg|at|claverack|new
york|befor|he|was|twenti|and|the|author|of|an|educ|work|of|merit
the|new|york|speaker|publish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and seventy-one
becom|earli|convinc|that|the|west|was|the|place|for|a|young|man|of
abil|he|locat|on|the|western|reserv|in|ohio|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|or|six|he|studi
law|and|was|admit|to|the|bar|in|cleveland|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|in|one|eight hundred and sixty-one|at|the|break
ing|out|of|the|civil|war|he|was|the|professor|of|the|law|of|contract|and|of
pariiamentarv|and|forens|oratori|in|the|ohio|state|colleg|of|law|at
cleveland|and|also|special|lectur|at|presid|garfield|s|famous|school|at
hiram|ohio|he|had|also|written|and|publish|sever|book|on|law|and
elocut|when|loyal|patriot|were|respond|to|the|nation|s|call|for|brave
defend|the|pursuit|of|law|and|literatur|lost|their|charm|for|the|young
professor|and|he|volunt|as|a|privat|soldier|from|this|time|his|upward
cours|was|rapid|the|historian|of|the|second|divis|of|the|armi|of|the
cumberland|say|in|a|biograph|foot|note|of|the|general|s|connect
with|that|distinguish|organ
upon|the|presid|s|call|for|troop|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|general|edgarton
enlist|as|a|privat|in|colonel|jame|barnett|s|batteri|of|artilleri|and|serv
in|everi|engag|of|icclellan|s|campaign|in|western|virginia|his
term|of|enlist|have|expir|he|was|commiss|to|rais|a|batteri
of|artilleri|in|less|than|three|week|he|enlist|one|hundr|and|fifti|men
who|were|muster|into|the|servic|as|batterv|e|first|ohio|light|artilleri
it|was|assign|to|general|o|m|mitchel|s|divis|and|particip|with
that|command|in|all|it|arduous|and|brilliant|campaign|in|middl|tennesse
and|northern|alabama|hen|his|batteri|was|attach|to|the|second|divi
sion|he|was|appoint|the|chief|of|artilleri|and|sene|in|that|honor
posit|until|the|memor|battl|of|stone|river|of|his|heroic|action
and|captur|enough|has|been|said|in|the|text|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|he|return
to|his|command|and|was|appoint|chief|of|artilleri|at|the|post|of|nashvill
when|the|reserv|troop|move|to|the|front|just|previous|to|the|battl|of
chickamauga|he|was|reliev|from|his|post|at|nashvill|upon|his|own|request
and|made|chief|of|artilleri|upon|general|morgan|s|staff|five|week|later|he
was|assign|to|a|similar|posit|on|the|staff|of|general|sheridan|dure
the|first|and|second|day|of|the|battl|of|iission|ridg|he|command|the
gun|of|fort|negley|at|chattanooga|on|the|morn|of|the|third|day|he|took
the|field|station|two|regular|batteri|on|orchard|knob|he|direct
their|fire|upon|the|enemi|on|mission|ridg|until|our|own|troop|came|within
rang|then|mount|his|hors|he|dash|to|the|front|join|general
sheridan|just|in|time|to|particip|in|the|captur|of|bragg|s|headquart
when|the|fourth|armi|corp|hasten|to|the|relief|of|burnsid|at|knox
vill|he|was|place|in|charg|of|the|artilleri|accompani|the|expedit
on|the|loth|of|march|he|was|promot|major|of|artilleri
the|dare|braveri|of|our|subject|at|the|battl|of|stone|river|decemlj
twenty-two|biograph|histori|op|the|first
thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|result|in|his|captur|ly|the|confeder|and|his|confin
in|libbi|prison|for|five|mont|his|later|militari|servic|was|in|complet
unison|with|that|detail|abov|and|he|retir|from|the|armi|with|the|rank|of
brevetbrigadi|general|this|long|and|hazard|servic|in|the|campaign
of|the|war|and|the|depriv|and|suffer|of|his|prison|life|at|liblji
nearlv|wreck|a|wonder|strong|physic|organ|and|at|the|close
of|the|war|he|sought|recuper|in|countri|life|at|newfield|gloucest
counti|new|jersey|where|he|purchas|a|farm|which|is|still|his|home
after|partial|regain|his|health|he|visit|the|princip|countri|of
europ|and|while|in|scotland|was|made|a|master|mason|in|caledonia|lodg
no|three hundred and ninety-two|of|edinburg|with|which|he|is|now|afifih|after|his|return|to
america|general|edgarton|was|for|a|time|engag|in|railroad|build|in
arkansa|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|was|appoint|by|postmast|general|creswel|assist
ant|superintend|of|the|unit|state|railway|mail|servic|and|special
agent|of|the|unit|state|postoiific|depart|his|was|just|the|natur
to|grappl|with|the|numer|difificulti|and|danger|connect|with|these
offic|and|with|the|except|of|two|year|of|presid|cleveland|s|admin
istrat|he|was|twentyseven|year|in|offic|resign|his|posit|on|march
nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|was|first|locat|at|littl|rock|arkansa|in|charg|of|a|divis
which|includ|arkansa|texa|and|the|indian|territori|his|headquart
were|later|transfer|to|cincinnati|and|later|still|to|st|loui|where|he|was
chief|of|a|divis|which|emlirac|eight|state|of|the|southwest|and|here
thirti|inspector|were|subject|to|his|order|the|health|result|of|his
labor|in|these|field|and|his|success|in|organ|togeth|with|his|admin
istrat|abil|caus|him|to|be|transfer|to|new|england|where|with
his|headquart|at|boston|he|was|the|chief|of|the|six|new|england|state
dure|presid|harrison|s|administr|and|that|of|presid|aickinley
he|was|station|at|philadelphia|in|charg|of|the|servic|in|pennsylvania|and
new|jersey
dure|his|offici|career|he|visit|and|made|friend|in|everi|state|in|the
union|a|compet|author|has|said|his|work|is|among|the|highest|in
his|branch|of|the|servic|he|was|eer|found|accur|reliabl|faith|to
the|minor|as|well|as|major|duti|of|servic|and|at|all|time|was|count|an
invalu|member|of|this|respons|forc|a|stalwart|republican|in|pol
itic|and|a|brilliant|public|speaker|and|for|mani|year|a|reliabl|campaign
in|heat|polit|year|he|has|yet|won|and|retain|the|friendship|of|his
oppon|to|a|surpris|extent|by|his|fair|his|courtesi|and|his|kind
consider|of|the|right|of|other
general|edgarton|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|miss|mari|e|hill|a|daughter|of
thoma|hill|of|newfield|new|jersey|and|is|pass|the|even|of|life|with
congression|district|of|nejj|jersey|two hundred and seventy-three
the|conscious|of|have|done|long|year|of|faith|servic|to|the|hearti
satisfact|of|his|superior|and|with|the|satisfact|of|number|among
his|familiar|friend|the|leader|in|a|period|of|the|highest|import|to|the
prosper|of|the|nation|includ|such|men|as|rosecran|sheridan|sher
man|grant|garfield|and|numer|other|whose|memori|are|endear|to
and|rever|by|everi|lover|of|his|countri|and|not|onli|these|but|the|com
rade|of|the|grand|armi|of|the|repuljl|in|which|he|is|promin|are
equallv|lii|friend
in|civil|life|he|is|consid|as|a|gentleman|of|rare|accomplish|and
cultur|whom|it|is|a|pleasur|to|know|and|to|associ|with|and|here|also|he
number|his|friend|by|legion|the|lesson|of|his|life|are|well|worthi|of|care
ful|perus|by|the|young|men|of|the|period|who|are|desir|of|serv|their
countri|faith|and|well
andrew|sinnickson
andrew|sinnickson|a|retir|lawyer|of|salem|is|one|of|the|best|known
men|in|the|counti|and|is|descend|through|a|long|line|of|promin|anc
tor|from|one|sinnich|sinnichsen|who|live|in|denmark|in|one thousand, five hundred and fifty|and|was
ennobl|by|king|frederick|ii|of|that|countri|and|given|the|possess
of|hestrip|angela|denmark|about|fifti|year|later|this|properti|pass
into|the|hand|of|his|son|carlen
andrew|sinnichsen|a|son|of|carlen|came|to|america|with|the|first
swedish|emigr|about|one thousand, six hundred and twenty-seven|and|locat|along|the|delawar|river|after
ward|move|to|new|jersey|where|he|purchas|a|larg|tract|of|land|in
one thousand, six hundred and forty-five|in|what|is|now|lower|penn|s|neck|township|some|thirti|year|later
when|john|fenwick|came|to|this|countri|to|take|possess|of|his|tenth
andrew|secur|a|quitclaim|to|the|tract|in|consider|of|a|vear|pay
ment|of|three|shill|two|son|came|with|him|to|his|new|home|andrew
and|broor|the|latter|have|locat|in|delawar|andrew|the|remain
son|and|the|fourth|of|the|name|came|to|this|state|where|he|marri|and
rear|a|famili|one|of|his|son|andrew|the|fourth|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighteen|in
lower|penn|s|neck|township|and|becam|one|of|the|most|promin|men
of|his|time|be|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|deputi|to|the|provin
cial|congress|of|the|state|and|a|member|of|the|first|legisl|council|by
his|strong|opposit|to|british|tyranni|he|call|down|upon|his|head|the
vituper|of|that|nation|as|did|also|his|son|thoma|who|was|a|promi
nent|statesman|and|busi|man|of|salem|and|for|whose|captur|either|dead
or|ali|the|british|general|lord|howe|offer|one|hundr|pound|ster
two hundred and seventy-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ling|andrew|sinnickson|was|unit|in|marriag|with|miss|sarah|giljohn
son|who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|his|larg|estat|was|divid|after|his|death
august|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|among|his|larg|famil|of|children|the|spell|of|the
iam|has|been|chang
andrew|sinnickson|5th|was|born|on|the|old|homestead|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-nine|he
was|a|captain|of|the|salem|militia|first|battalion|and|paymast|for|salem
cumberland|and|cape|may|he|was|brave|and|fearless|and|the|special
object|against|which|the|hatr|of|the|redcoat|was|direct|a|forag
parti|of|the|british|made|an|assault|on|his|properti|on|march|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|but
were|repuls|in|such|a|manner|they|were|glad|to|escap|without|their
booti|he|took|unto|himself|four|wive|in|his|lifetim|margaret|bilder
back|margaret|johnson|born|august|two|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|and|die|novemb|four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two
sarah|capner|widow|of|andrew|sinnickson|a|distant|cousin|and|sarah
norri
thoma|sinnickson|was|born|in|the|same|township|as|were|his|ancestor
decemb|thirteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|he|was|one|of|the|most|promin|federalist|of|his
age|and|was|afterward|a|power|factor|in|the|rank|of|the|whig|and|re
publican|forc|he|was|the|presid|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea
judg|of|the|court|of|error|and|appeal|of|new|jersey|a|member|of|the|legi
latur|and|of|the|twentieth|nation|congress|he|settl|mani|estat|and|was
guardian|and|administr|of|more|estat|than|ani|man|in|the|counti
he|was|a|vestryman|and|a|warden|of|st|john|s|episcop|church|and|a|man
who|was|univers|respect|and|esteem|octob|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|he|was
unit|in|the|holi|bond|of|matrimoni|with|elizabeth|daughter|of|john|and
mari|brinton|jacob|of|chester|counti|pennsylvania|she|was|born
august|three|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|and|die|august|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|thoma|sinnickson|die|febru
ari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|their|children|were|dr|john|jacob|deceas|margaret
johnson|mrs|thoma|jone|york|born|januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|charl|and
andrew
andrew|sinnickson|was|born|octob|2y|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|at|salem|where|he|re
ceiv|his|primari|educ|in|the|privat|school|this|was|supplement
by|a|cours|in|the|burlington|board|school|after|which|he|took|up|the
studi|of|law|with|alphonso|l|aiken|of|salem|for|his|preceptor|later|with
exgovernor|peter|d|vroom|of|trenton|for|his|tutor|and|was|admit|to
the|bar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|he|at|onc|open|an|ofific|in|this|citi|and|in|a|short|time
had|establish|a|larg|and|lucrat|clientag|he|continu|in|the|practic
of|his|chosen|profess|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|when|he|retir|from|practic|he|was
the|prosecut|attorney|for|salem|counti|for|ten|year|and|gave|his|best
effort|toward|erad|the|evil|that|exist|there
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|he|was|unit|in|marriag|with|miss|louisa|daughter|of
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|two hundred and seventy-five
ephraim|booth|of|read|pennsylvania|they|had|three|children
louis|the|wife|of|norman|gray|a|lawyer|of|camden|this|state|bessi|who
die|just|as|she|was|blossom|into|womanhood|and|an|infant|who|die
unnam|mr|sinnickson|is|a|member|of|st|john|s|episcop|church|in
which|he|is|a|warden|and|is|a|strong|republican|although|he|has|never
care|to|enter|the|polit|arena|he|was|a|charter|member|of|the|eenwick
club|of|this|citi|and|is|a|member|of|the|son|of|the|revolut|he|is
larg|interest|in|real|estat|and|own|sexer|farm|in|lower|penn|s|neck
tovrnship|besid|other|farm|he|is|a|busi|man|of|abil|and|has|lieen
chosen|time|and|again|to|administ|on|estat
john|f|grham
one|of|the|most|popular|young|busi|men|of|woodburi|gloucest
counti|is|john|foster|graham|the|genial|cashier|of|the|first|nation|bank
he|is|a|nativ|of|the|citi|of|brother|love|his|birth|have|occur|dure
the|progress|of|the|civil|war|on|the|loth|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|thus|is|in|the
prime|of|manhood|and|possess|the|enthusiasm|and|irogress|spirit|which
character|the|american|citizen|of|his|generat
the|earli|educ|of|our|subject|was|such|as|the|excel|public|school
of|his|nativ|citi|afford|and|after|complet|his|studi|he|was|employ
in|a|law|ofc|for|three|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|enter|the|commonwealth|na
tional|bank|of|philadelphia|in|a|cleric|capac|and|continu|in|that|well
known|institut|of|financ|for|four|year|have|thus|liecom|perfect
familiar|with|the|bank|busi|he|accept|a|more|pay|posit|with
the|mechan|nation|bank|of|philadelphia|be|assist|to|the|receiv
ing|teller|for|a|short|time|and|later|lie|promot|to|the|posit|of|discount
clerk|he|remain|with|this|bank|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|when|he|resign|in|order|to
accept|his|present|place|which|he|has|fill|most|credit|and|to|tlie|full
satisfact|of|it|offici|as|well|as|to|that|of|the|general|public
the|same|year|that|mr|graham|l|ecam|connect|with|tlie|first|na
tional|bank|of|woodburi|he|led|to|the|marriag|altar|miss|mari|magil|a
daughter|of|william|j|and|elizabeth|wallac|magil|the|ceremoni
which|unit|their|destini|was|perform|in|philadelphia|april|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
their|onli|child|a|littl|daughter|who|was|christen|elizabeth|magil|die
when|but|five|week|old
social|mr|graham|stand|eri|high|e|a|member|and|master|of
the|exchequ|of|mariola|lodg|anrl|identifi|with|the|knight|of|pythia
two hundred and seventy-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ami|the|heptasoph|of|oodl|uri|and|with|the|order|of|sparta|royal|ar
canum|and|bank|clerk|benefici|order|of|philadelphia|in|his|polit
view|he|is|a|republican|and|religi|a|presbyterian
isaac|h|vanneman
isaac|hendrickson|xannenian|the|presid|of|the|swedesboro|nation
bank|has|been|one|of|the|most|promin|factor|in|the|growth|and|develop
ment|of|swedesboro|in|the|vicin|of|which|town|his|entir|life|has|been
pass|he|is|the|grandson|of|isaac|vanneman|who|was|an|earli|settler
of|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|and|had|one|daughter|and|five
son|of|the|latter|helm|who|was|the|father|of|our|subject|was|marri
three|time|his|first|wife|was|mari|black|and|the|second|mari|homan
neither|of|whom|had|ani|children|his|third|wife|mari|hendrickson|bore
him|eight|children|of|whom|the|follow|record|is|given|hannah|de
ceas|marri|daniel|lynch|and|becam|the|mother|of|nine|children
john|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|at|the|age|of|fortytwo|year|ann|die|at|the|age|of
eightv|_ear|charl|and|helm|twin|die|when|about|seventi|year
old|isaac|h|is|the|next|mari|widow|of|dr|john|f|riusgrav|resid
in|swcdesboro|and|sarali|also|live|in|that|town
isaac|h|vanneman|was|born|septemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|on|a|farm|about|two
mile|from|swedesboro|and|follow|agricultur|pursuit|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|when
he|took|up|his|resid|in|the|town|he|has|been|the|owner|of|sever
farm|at|various|time|and|at|present|own|two|after|his|remov|to
swedesboro|he|was|for|three|year|the|treasur|of|the|woodburi|swede
boro|railroad|he|was|one|of|the|organ|of|the|branch|and|one|of|it
director|until|it|ijecam|a|part|of|the|pennsylvania|system|he|also|assist
in|the|organ|of|the|build|loan|associ|and|is|it|treasur
in|addit|to|the|aliov|he|has|numer|other|interest|and|to|his|energi
and|progress|spirit|the|town|owe|much|of|it|prosper
mr|vanneman|was|marri|march|six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|to|marietta|hew|a
daughter|of|thoma|and|rebecca|black|hew|of|woolwich|township
thev|have|had|five|children|sarah|emma|who|die|in|childhood|revilla
the|wife|of|william|r|poinsett|of|swedesboro|anna|who|die|at|the|age
of|two|year|mari|h|the|wife|of|georg|b|mitchel|of|swedesboro|by
whom|she|has|two|children|marian|and|helen|and|emma|at|home
for|twenti|year|mr|vanneman|has|been|one|of|the|vestrymen|of|the
protest|episcop|church|of|swedesboro|and|was|chosen|warden|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
he|was|one|of|the|organ|of|the|swedesboro|grang|of|which|he|was|the
2lylyla|yz|z|cc
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and seventy-seven
treasur|for|mani|year|and|has|also|assist|in|form|mani|of|the|neigh
ijor|grang|in|polit|he|is|a|lifelong|republican|and|has|held|numer
township|offic|he|is|a|man|who|has|alway|had|the|welfar|of|his|fellow
men|at|heart|and|he|has|given|will|of|his|time|and|money|to|promot
social|intercours|improv|the|moral|and|physic|condit|and|enlarg|the
busi|facil|of|his|comnnmiti
triniti|episco|3al|church|which|inmib|among|it|member|mani|of
the|lead|citizen|of|svedesl|oro|and|icin|was|at|first|a|swedish|mission
of|the|wilmington|delawar|church|and|was|charter|b|king|georg
iii|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-five|two|log|build|near|raccoon|creek|i|reced|the|present
brick|structur|which|was|erect|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-four|at|this|date|the|church|was
under|the|charg|of|dr|nichola|collin|who|came|from|sweden|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy
and|occasion|minist|at|raccoon|and|penn|s|neck|he|began|his
pastor|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|and|continu|over|the|parish|until|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|in|one|of|the
old|parish|record|is|found|a|brief|statement|of|his|work|at|the|point|men
tion|at|swedesboro|i|perform|divin|servic|everi|third|sunday|dur
ing|the|summer|and|autumn|of|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|this|rectorship|is|notalil|as|be
the|last|in|which|the|parish|had|ani|recogn|relat|to|the|church|of
sweden|and|also|for|the|erect|of|the|build|which|has|been|use|for
one|hundr|year|from|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|the|church|had|twenti|astor|in
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|a|tower|and|steepl|were|built|a|bell|w|as|purchas|and|manv|impro
ment|made|in|the|interior|of|the|build|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|the|old|parsonag|was
move|and|sold|and|a|new|one|was|built|which|was|afterward|enlarg|and
repair|in|one hundred and eighty-five|one|the|present|slate|roof|was|place|upon|the|church|build
ing|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|a|new|music|instrument|call|the|aeolian|was|purchas
it|is|still|in|use|and|in|the|care|of|mr|henri|shivler|who|for|thirti|year|was
the|secretari|of|the|vestri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|the|present|sundayschool|and|lectur
room|was|built|and|the|interior|of|the|church|was|renov|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|the
old|bell|was|sold|and|a|new|one|purchas|the|church|is|an|histor|land
mark|and|it|histori|in|full|is|most|interest|at|the|present|time|it|is|ina
flourish|condit
jona|h|lounsburi
jona|h|lounsl|uri|a|promin|farmer|of|elsinboro|salem|counti
was|born|in|upper|penn|s|neck|may|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|is|a|son|of|walker|loun
buri|and|elizabeth|nee|spark|both|of|whom|were|nativ|of|this|counti
his|grandfath|walker|lounsburi|also|a|nativ|of|salem|counti|serv
five|year|lack|three|week|in|the|revolutionari|war|of|his|four|son
john|die|from|the|effect|of|wound|receiv|in|the|war|of|1s12|onli|one
2yi|biograph|histori|of|the|first
walker|the|father|of|our|subject|was|marri|the|children|were|deb
orah|who|marri|joseph|plummer|of|ouinton|xew|jersey|rebecca|the
wife|of|jacob|armstrong|of|gloucest|counti|mulford|a|farmer|of|ouin
ton|this|state|charl|jona|h|a|twin|of|sarah|who|marri|thoma
mullica|of|salem|alexand|employ|in|an|oilcloth|factori|in|salem
arthur|a|farmer|of|ouinton|and|ilayhew|of|wilmington|delawar
ir|lounsbur|was|educ|in|the|public|school|and|from|earli|boy
hood|has|been|engag|in|farm|occupi|his|present|place|own|by
joshua|waddington|of|salem|for|eleven|year|he|also|own|a|truck|farm
of|fifti|acr|near|ouinton|in|ouinton|township|he|was|marri|in|april
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|to|liss|emma|atkinson|a|daughter|of|illiam|atkinson|of|ouinton
and|they|have|six|children|anna|e|charl|william|a|harri|emma
and|bertha
mr|lounsburi|is|a|republican|in|polit|and|has|serv|his|township|as
a|truste|he|is|now|the|treasur|of|the|school|fund|and|is|serv|his
fourth|vear|as|tax|collector
s|p|de|hart
s|p|de|hart|of|williamstown|was|born|februari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|on|a|farm
which|is|still|his|home|and|is|the|onli|live|child|of|cornehus|and|hannah
prickett|de|hart|his|father|was|bom|at|evesham|xew|jersey|and|was
a|son|of|jacob|de|hart|who|was|of|french|descent|the|greatgrandfath
of|our|subject|was|the|owner|of|extens|properti|interest|at|evesham
which|w|ere|destroy|by|the|british|dure|the|war|of|the|revolut|he
afterward|settl|at|cross|ke|s|gloucest|counti|where|the|representa
tive|of|his|famili|have|sinc|remain|cornelius|de|hart|w|as|a|farmer|by
occup|and|was|a|lead|member|and|exhort|of|the|methodist|epi
copal|church|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|and|his|wife|who|was|a|daughter|of|john
prickett|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two
s|p|de|hart|their|onli|surviv|child|acquir|his|educ|in|the
common|school|his|attend|altern|with|work|on|the|farm|from
his|youth|he|display|excel|music|abil|and|his|correct|ear|and|love
for|the|art|of|music|led|him|into|the|busi|of|tune|piano|and|organ
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|began|to|sell|piano|and|organ|and|now|has|a|trade|extend
over|four|counti|he|buy|from|the|factori|and|sell|direct|to|the|peopl
he|is|now|enjoy|a|liber|patronag|have|establish|a|good|busi
he|is|also|the|owner|of|seventyf|acr|of|land|which|he|cultiv
mr|de|hart|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|parnella|sickler|of|this|local
cohgressfox|district|of|xejl|jersey|two hundred and seventy-nine
iti|her|father|was|of|holland|descent|belong|to|one|of|the|old|famili
from|that|countri|and|was|a|promin|and|influenti|citizen|of|gloucest
counti|he|was|a|local|preacher|and|also|a|justic|of|the|peac|the|mar
riag|of|mr|and|mrs|de|hart|was|celebr|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|has|been|bless
with|two|children|alli|the|wife|of|l|dorst|hurfif|of|wenonah|and
mari|the|wife|of|sumner|crist|at|home
for|four|term|mr|de|hart|has|serv|as|a|member|of|the|township
committe|has|been|school|truste|for|nine|year|and|was|the|clerk|of|the
town|for|six|year|he|vote|with|the|republican|parti|and|take|quit|an
acti|e|interest|in|polit|do|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|growth|and
insur|the|success|of|the|organ|with|which|he|is|connect|he|also
labor|zealous|in|behalf|of|his|friend|on|elect|day|he|has|use|his
music|talent|for|the|benefit|of|the|church|have|been|leader|of|the|choir|of
the|methodist|episcop|church|for|twenti|year|while|for|four|year|he
has|led|the|sing|in|the|sundayschool|such|in|brief|is|the|histori|of|one
whose|entir|life|has|been|pass|in|gloucest|counti|and|who|in|it|various
relat|has|stood|by|everi|measur|that|he|believ|was|for|public|benefit
in|manner|he|is|cordial|and|genial|and|not|onli|win|friend|wherev|he
goe|but|also|has|the|happi|faculti|of|draw|them|closer|to|him|as|the
year|pass|by
joseph|g|champion
joseph|g|champion|was|born|februari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|in|morristown|new
jersey|and|is|a|son|of|lorenzo|dow|and|harriett|rain|champion|his
greatgreatgrandfath|was|nathaniel|champion|the|first|of|the|name|to
seek|a|home|in|cape|may|counti|he|live|and|die|in|tuckaho|wdier|he
carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|lorenzo|d|champion|the|father|of|our
subject|was|born|in|tuckaho|and|in|earli|life|learn|the|shoemak|s|trade
he|follow|that|vocat|mani|year|and|was|long|connect|with|isaac
smashey|a|shoe|manufactur|at|salem|new|jersey|he|afterward|re
move|to|rio|grand|cape|may|counti|w|here|he|engag|in|farm|but
is|now|live|a|retir|life|in|palermo|he|marri|miss|rain|and|the|three
children|born|to|them|are|joseph|g|c|lesli|who|marri|lizzi|driver
and|is|a|dealer|in|bicycl|in|cape|may|court|hous|and|ouiiiton|e|a
painter|by|trade|who|marri|eva|ang|of|ocean|citi
joseph|grif|champion|pursu|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of
cape|may|counti|and|at|the|age|of|twenti|year|had|acquir|a|good|practi
cal|knowledg|of|those|branch|of|learn|which|fit|one|for|the|respons
28o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
duti|of|busi|life|he|afterward|learn|tlie|trade|of|mill|and|also|the
carpent|s|trade|which|he|follow|for|five|year|as|a|journeyman|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|began|contract|and|build|at|ocean|citi|and|has|sinc|been
connect|with|all|import|industri|interest|he|has|also|studi|archi
tectur|and|his|great|capabl|in|this|line|has|enabl|him|to|add|larg|to
the|attract|appear|of|the|town|in|which|he|resid|he|was|the|archi
tect|for|the|bours|build|the|sentinel|print|hous|and|a|number|of
hotel|and|on|all|side|stand|beauti|resid|repres|all|kind|of
architectur|which|are|the|work|of|this|well|known|contractor|he|is|con
nect|with|e|w|burleigh|compani|dealer|in|build|suppli|and|is
the|head|of|the|firm|of|joseph|champion|compani|contractor|and|build
er|who|employ|more|men|than|ani|other|contract|firm|in|ocean|citi
and|have|erect|more|build|than|ani|one|connect|with|this|line
mr|champion|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of|the|men|and
measur|of|the|republican|parti|and|has|been|a|candid|for|mayor|in
ocean|citi|he|is|identifi|with|the|improv|order|of|red|men|in|cam
den|with|iota|council|no|six|j|o|you|a|m|and|the|american|order|of
unit|workmen|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|engin|compani|no|two|of
the|volunt|fire|depart|he|contribut|to|the|support|of|the|meth
odist|episcop|church|his|name|be|on|it|membership|roll|he|was
marri|novemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|to|gertrud|a|daughter|of|john|carpent|of
salem|counti|then|resid|in|pennsvill|they|have|one|child|name
anna|b|he|has|sinc|been|locat|in|this|section|mr|champion|is|identi
fie|with|the|social|materi|and|moral|progress|of|ocean|citi|and|is|a|lead
ing|and|influenti|man|as|an|architect|and|builder|he|has|done|much|to
improv|the|appear|of|this|most|attract|summer|resort|and|has|been
an|activ|factor|in|the|work|which|has|assur|the|success|futur|of|the
town
joseph|rulon|black
the|black|famili|has|been|for|mani|year|one|of|the|lead|famili|of
gloucest|counti|new|jersey|about|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|three|brother|thoma
samuel|and|william|black|came|from|counti|antrim|ireland|and|settl
in|gloucest|counti|william|afterward|return|to|ireland|and|samuel
who|made|his|home|with|his|brother|thoma|was|never|marri|so|that|all
the|famili|are|descend|from|thoma|dure|the|revolutionari|war|he
was|oblig|to|pass|much|of|his|time|conceal|in|the|wood|on|account|of
the|frequent|visit|of|the|british|soldier|to|the|home|of|the|settler|whom
when|they|found|they|took|prison|upon|one|of|these|occas|he|was
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and eighty-one
at|home|but|took|refug|in|the|loft|of|his|hous|which|was|reach|by|a|lad
der|as|the|soldier|were|about|to|ascend|to|his|hide|place|his|wife|told
them|that|her|husband|was|not|up|there|but|that|her|children|were|and
sleep|and|ask|that|they|be|not|disturb|perhap|it|was|the|tender
recollect|of|his|own|littl|one|at|home|or|it|may|have|been|a|natur
reluct|to|disturb|the|slumber|of|babyhood|at|ani|rate|the|command
mg|offic|did|not|order|his|men|up|the|ladder|and|the|life|of|one|revolu
tionari|patriot|the|founder|of|a|famili|which|has|produc|mani|good|citi
zen|was|save
the|children|of|thoma|black|were|elizabeth|who|marri|thoma
logan|franc|who|marri|thoma|leap|benjamin|who|was|for|mani
vear|a|farmer|in|gloucest|counti|samuel|who|marri|keziah|vanlear
and|it|is|thought|that|william|and|sarah|were|by|a|second|wife|the|chil
dren|of|samuel|and|keziah|vanlear|black|were|thoma|who|was|a|far
mer|near|swedesboro|elizabeth|who|marri|william|gaskil|georg
samuel|mari|who|never|marri|and|is|now|ninetythre|year|of|age
alexand|who|marri|hannah|ivulon|rebecca|who|marri|thoma|b
hew|and|beulah|who|die|young|the|children|of|alexand|and|han
nah|rulon|black|were|david|who|live|in|swedesboro|joseph|r|the
direct|subject|of|this|sketch|marianna|who|marri|john|c|rulon|lucretia
who|live|with|her|brother|joseph|r|henrietta|carolin|beulah|and|sum
ner|who|die|in|childhood|and|emma|who|marri|walter|s|bassett|a
farmer|near|swedesboro
joseph|r|black|was|born|on|a|farm|situat|along|raccoon|creek|about
three|mile|from|swedesboro|august|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|was|educ|in|the
public|school|of|his|nativ|township|and|at|wilmington|delawar|and
norristown|pennsylvania|he|has|follow|farm|all|his|life|except|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one
to|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|when|he|was|engag|in|the|undertak|busi|in|philadelphia
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|purchas|his|present|comfort|resid|and|remov|to
swedesboro|but|still|own|the|old|homestead|fann|and|other|farm|properti
mr|black|was|never|marri|but|in|his|well|appoint|and|modeiti
home|presid|over|by|his|sister|he|enjoy|the|handsom|compet|which
he|has|accumul|and|besid|enjoy|the|comfort|of|home|life|he|has
taken|much|pleasur|in|numer|extend|trip|throughout|the|unit
state|and|canada|mr|black|was|made|a|mason|in|mantua|new|jersey
and|is|a|charter|member|of|swedesboro|lodg|no|one hundred and fifty-seven|f|a|m|which
was|organ|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|swedesljoro
grang|which|was|organ|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he|is|a|republican|in|polit|and|has
been|for|thirti|year|a|member|of|the|grand|juri|of|gloucest|counti
two hundred and eighty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
amxon|wright
amnon|right|enjoy|the|honor|of|ha|been|the|first|settler|at|cape
may|point|new|jersey|and|perhap|more|than|ani|other|citizen|here|has
been|instrument|in|the|upbuild|of|this|now|just|famous|seasid|resort
to|his|energi|enthusiasm|and|foresight|mani|of|the|most|substanti|and
benefici|improv|of|the|place|are|due|and|in|everi|possibl|manner|he
has|repeat|prove|his|intens|local|patriot
the|ancestor|of|mr|wright|were|english|peopl|who|accompani
william|penn|to|america|at|an|earli|day|they|settl|in|salem|counti
new|jersey|and|from|that|time|until|the|present|the|famili|has|been|num
bere|among|the|reliabl|prosper|citizen|of|this|state|the|patern
grandfath|of|our|subject|william|wright|whose|home|was|below|quinton
and|alloway|at|quinton|s|bridg|salem|counti|was|consid|a|wealthi
man|in|his|day|as|he|own|properti|of|valu|in|that|counti|as|well|as|in
cumberland|counti|he|enlist|in|the|coloni|armi|dure|the|war|of|the
revolut|and|fought|for|the|land|of|his|birth|which|he|live|to|see|under
an|independ|flag|for|sever|decad|thereaft|by|his|first|wife|eliza
beth|four|children|were|born|name|hezekiah|william|hope|and
jame|g|his|second|wife|was|a|miss|young|in|her|girlhood|death|re
leas|him|from|his|earth|al|or|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|when|he|had|attain|the|ripe|age
of|fourscor|year
jame|g|wright|the|father|of|amnon|wright|was|born|on|the|old
homestead|near|quinton|s|bridg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|and|as|he|grew|to|manhood|he
gave|his|attent|to|agricultur|also|engag|in|the|lumber|busi|on
alloway|s|creek|he|was|the|owner|of|a|larg|desir|farm|and|by|dili
genc|in|busi|becam|welltodo|and|respect|polit|he|was|a
democrat|but|never|accept|an|offici|posit|an|ardent|baptist|he
contribut|liber|to|the|work|and|at|his|death|left|one|thousand|dollar
to|a|church|this|event|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when|he|was|in|his|seventythird
year|his|first|wife|hannah|anderson|wright|depart|this|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three
when|in|her|fortyninth|year|and|left|six|children|name|amnon|eben
ezer|ann|elizabeth|wife|of|samuel|halliday|hannah|mari|wife|of|joel
wilmuth|of|indiana|william|who|wed|mari|green|of|illinoi|and|is
now|live|in|salem|oregon|and|amanda|who|never|marri|for|a|sec
ond|wife|jame|g|wright|chose|ann|bank|and|their|onli|child|lilli|never
marri
the|birth|of|amnon|right|took|place|on|the|parent|homestead|near
quinton|s|bridg|march|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|after|he|had|master|the|common
branch|taught|in|the|public|school|of|the|neighborhood|he|engag|in
i|seven|_
emn
if
j
jw
m
km|e
you
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|2s3
teaclhuo|for|four|vear|and|then|carri|on|a|farm|near|alloway|for|three
er|he|next|otter|his|servic|to|the|govern|for|the|civil|war|was
n|progress|and|for|two|and|a|half|year|or|until|the|close|of|the|war|he
lntplove|in|the|construct|corp|m|the|railroad|depart|a|part|o
l|time|be|station|near|alexandria|airgin|a|and|the|remamdei|m
the|vicin|of|nashvill|tennesse
from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|mr|wright|was|engag|in|the|carpent|s|trade
at|salem|after|which|he|came|to|cape|may|point|where|he|was|the|fir
to|make|a|perman|locat|and|here|as|previous|he|s|emplox|at
lis|tade|until|about|two|year|ago|a|larg|share|of|the|bud|iich
have|been|erect|at|this|flourish|place|stand|as|exampl|of|his|handi
ork|and|for|sever|vear|he|has|been|interest|in|the|realest|busi
he|now|be|the|presid|of|the|cape|may|point|bud|loan
ssociat|he|own|consider|valuabl|properti|here|includ|the
smf|hous|hotel|of|thirti|room|sea|girt|cottag|of|teenleep
room|wright|villa|and|the|store|adjoin|it|two|cottag|in|salem|ne
tersev|and|interest|in|other|he|is|a|man|of|good|busi|abditi|as|his
success|amplv|attest|and|his|fellow|citizen|have|frequent|call|upon|him
to|serv|in|local|offici|capac|he|has|been|the|mayor|of|this|town|fo
vhich|he|has|done|so|much|sinc|it|found|was|the|first|treasur|of|this
borough|has|been|postmast|here|two|term|and|in|short|has|left|no|stone
unturn|when|he|believ|that|the|town|of|his|hope|and|pride|might|be|the
oainer|bv|his|devot
in|addit|to|his|manv|other|qualif|mr|w|nght|has|literaij
abilitv|and|possess|a|facil|pen|owe|to|the|fact|that|he|has|compos
manv|a|beauti|poem|and|clever|bit|of|blank|vers|which|have|found|rea|b
pubush|both|in|the|local|press|and|in|lead|review|of|tlpenodn
wrioht|has|been|dub|the|poet|laureat|of|cape|may|point|from
his|ancestor|he|inherit|strong|patriot|tendenc|and|from|his|boyhood
up|he|took|great|interest|in|assist|his|father|in|collect|militari|rehc
of|the|revohit|his|matern|greatgrandmoth|hannah|wife|of|jere
miah|stump|was|a|heroin|of|the|revolutionari|war|as|she|serv|faith
full|v|as|a|nurs|in|hospit|in|philadelphia|and|new|jersey|and_|realli
cav|e|her|life|for|her|countri|and|for|love|of|her|suffer|fellow|patriot|as
her|death|at|the|close|of|the|war|was|direct|trace|to|her|devot|labor
on|behalf|of|the|sokliersa|labor|of|love|which|extend|over|a|long|period
in|which|she|spare|herself|not|in|the|least
polit|mv|right|is|a|democrat|and|fratern|he|is|a|master
mason|belong|to|lodg|no|thirty|he|is|a|deacon|in|the|baptist|church
the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|and|take|a|veri|activ|part|in|tne
two hundred and eighty-four|biograph|fusrorv|of|rilli|first
general|work|of|the|lenominatioii|his|marriag|march|fourteen|i860|unit
his|destini|with|those|of|mari|fowser|a|daughter|of|samuel|fowser|a
farmer|of|salem|counti|three|children|were|born|to|our|subject|and|his
estim|wife|but|none|of|them|survi|l|infanc
henri|j|frea
henri|j|frea|deceas|was|one|of|the|substanti|and|most|high|re
spect|citizen|of|salem|salem|counti|new|jersey|and|the|emin|at
tain|by|him|in|the|busi|world|gay|eyid|of|his|shrewd|percept
and|sound|judgment|in|matter|of|busi|in|no|less|a|degre|than|his|promi
nenc|in|social|and|religi|circl|spoke|of|his|kind|and|beneyol|natur
he|was|a|son|of|johnson|f|rea|and|was|born|januari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|at|penn|s
neck|salem|counti|ney|jersey|his|boyhood|was|similar|to|that|of|other
lad|of|his|time|his|earlier|year|were|spent|in|the|privat|school|of|salem
and|he|then|becam|a|clerk|in|the|drygood|store|of|charl|rumsey|of|that
citi|he|remain|in|this|posit|for|sever|year|win|the|confid|of
the|proprietor|and|custom|alik|and|make|friend|who|were|glad|to
assist|the|young|man|by|their|patronag|and|good|wi|will|when|at|length|he
embark|in|his|own|drygood|establish|this|step|was|taken|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six
when|he|had|just|pass|his|major|and|was|begun|on|a|moder|scale
which|was|enlarg|from|time|to|time|as|the|busi|demand|until|at|his
death|he|had|one|of|the|best|stock|store|in|this|vicin|he|purchasefl|the
georg|garrison|properti|into|which|he|move|his|stock|of|good|and|there
he|continu|until|his|death|one|of|the|most|success|and|jiopular|mer
chant|of|salem|his|thrift|and|economi|enabl|him|to|lay|by|a|consirl
abl|sum|which|he|invest|judici|from|time|to|time|as|opportun
ofif|and|he|becam|possess|of|consider|properti|asid|from|his
store|the|sound|common|sens|display|by|him|in|busi|transact
was|use|to|no|less|advantag|by|him|in|domest|and|social|life|make
his|home|one|of|the|happiest|and|most|attract|and|the|center|of|a|larg
circl|of|friend|he|was|a|member|of|the|baptist|church|to|which|he|con
tribut|liber|both|of|time|and|money|a|democrat|in|polit|he|was
toler|of|the|view|of|other|and|for|eight|year|serv|on|the|board|of
educ|and|was|also|a|member|of|the|board|of|trade
he|was|marri|septemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|to|miss|elizabeth|a|hand|by
whom|he|had|four|children|walter|j|franci|hand|helen|cleaver|and
alic|elizabeth|mr|frea|die|januari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|at|the|age|of|fifti|year
when|in|the|zenith|of|a|success|life|sinc|his|demis|the|busi|has|been
congression|district|of|nejv|jersey|two hundred and eighty-three
carri|on|by|mrs|frea|and|lier|son|walter|the|abil|display|by|mrs
frea|in|this|connect|is|someth|remark|for|a|woman|and|excel
bv|few|men|as|is|often|the|case|the|qualif|for|a|success|i|usi
career|were|not|suspect|by|the|ladi|herself|until|the|demand|was|made
upon|her|to|continu|the|larg|busi|of|her|husband|s|estat|and|this|she
has|done|in|a|manner|that|has|been|a|surpris|to|her|friend|and|a|credit|to
her|sex
jacob|frea|was|the|founder|of|the|famili|in|this|countrx|he|was|born
in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifteen|in|friesland|holland|and|with|his|brother|phillip|came|to|merica
to|seek|a|home|on|board|the|same|steamer|was|a|young|girl|an|acquaint
anc|of|jacob|margaret|herkin|some|eight|year|his|junior|the|acc|uaint
anc|begun|in|the|fatherland|was|augment|by|the|close|companionship
aboard|the|vessel|until|it|deepen|into|love|which|was|culmin|in|their
marriag|upon|their|arriv|at|pennsylania|from|philadelphia|they|came
to|salem|counti|and|settl|at|the|locat|now|known|as|friesburg|their
children|were|jacob|born|octob|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|margaret|born|februari|five
one thousand, seven hundred and forty-four|john|born|march|twenty-six|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-six|frederick|born|octob|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight|georg
bom|septemb|three|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|henri|born|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-two|mari|born|march
four|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-five|and|drown|januar|two|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|phillip|born|januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|peter
born|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-nine|and|elizabeth|born|june|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three|the|wife|and|mother
die|juli|thirty|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|at|the|age|of|fiftyon|year|and|a|few|year|later|jacob
frea|chose|as|his|second|helpmat|dorca|halter|a|widow|and|their|chil
dren|were|mari|born|februari|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|ann|born|septemb|i|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven
elizabeth|born|august|id|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|margaret|born|juli|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-one|phoeb|born
may|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|and|sarah|born|januari|i|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|jacob|frea|live|to|a|good
old|age|die|march|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and one|in|his|eightysixth|year|a|lutheran|and|was
laid|besid|his|wife|margaret|in|the|lutheran|cemeterv|at|friesliurg|new
jersey
frederick|frea|one|of|his|children|marri|catherin|miller|a|daughter
of|peter|and|barbara|miller|and|a|granddaught|of|john|michael|miller
who|adxanc|passag|money|to|both|jacob|and|his|wife|when|they|came
to|america|and|for|whom|they|work|after|land|here|until|the|amount
was|repaid|their|children|were|henri|born|april|six|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|elizabeth|han
nah|nanci|lydia|frederick|and|john|henri|marri|hannah|ray|a
daughter|of|samuel|and|hannah|holm|ray|on|june|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and two|the
children|b|this|union|were|samuel|ann|louisiana|jame|john
henri|johnson|william|daniel|reuben|and|elizalieth|judg|henr
frea|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was|one|of|the|most|promin|men|of
his|time|and|took|an|activ|part|in|frame|the|law|of|his|state|he|was
elect|to|the|ofiic|of|sheriff|of|salem|count|in|tsto|and|at|the|joint|meet
two hundred and eighty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ing|of|the|legislatur|held|februari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|februari|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|and|octob
thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|respect|he|was|elect|justic|of|the|peac|he|was
elect|judg|of|the|court|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|again|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|he|was|a
member|of|the|legislatur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|and|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|and|a|member|of|the
legisl|council|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|and|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|dure|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|rais|a
compani|of|volunt|of|which|he|was|commiss|captain|tliey|were
muster|in|on|septemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|and|station|at|billingsport|on|the
delawar|river|where|they|did|good|servic|in|the|defens|of|philadel
phia|dure|the|three|month|thus|situat|they|were|muster|out|decem
ber|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|he|was|a|man|of|sterl|worth|who|look|onli|to|the|inter
est|of|his|state|when|in|the|execut|council|and|was|abov|the|mani|petti
consider|which|influenc|mani|of|the|statesmen|socal|of|today
when|in|the|senat|he|was|one|of|two|member|who|vote|against|legal
horserac|in|the|state|of|new|jersey|he|was|the|presid|of|the|board
of|truste|of|the|first|baptist|church|of|salem|where|he|was|an|honor
member|for|mani|year|his|death|occur|august|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|when|he|was|of
the|age|of|eighti|year|and|was|univers|mourn|as|a|public|calam
he|is|well|rememb|by|mani|of|our|older|resid|and|his|career|is|a
matter|of|person|and|justifi|pride|to|his|descend
aaron|g|rice
aaron|g|rice|was|born|septemb|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|at|townsend|s|inlet|in|iid
dle|township|cape|may|counti|his|parent|be|charl|and|hannah|jane
brower|rice|his|father|was|born|in|denni|township|cape|may|counti
and|resid|for|mani|year|at|south|seavill|he|was|a|sea|captain|and
command|vessel|engag|in|the|coast|trade|he|marri|hannah|j
brower|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|the|follow|name|children|liv
ingston|who|is|engag|in|the|oyster|busi|anna|the|wife|of|charl
eldridg|a|surfman|of|sea|isl|citi|lifesav|station|by|whom|she
has|two|children|frank|a|railway|employ|and|walter|now|deceas
charl|who|wed|mari|townsend|and|is|engag|in|deal|in|oyster
aaron|godfrey|of|this|review|and|hatti|the|wife|of|john|dougla|who|if
the|captain|of|a|vessel|the|father|of|this|famili|dietl|at|the|age|of|forti
eight|year|and|the|mother|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventi
aaron|g|rice|attend|the|public|school|to|a|limit|extent|but|larg
acquir|his|educ|through|studi|at|night|he|was|onli|two|year|old
when|his|father|die|and|when|a|veri|young|lad|began|to|earn|his|own|live
he|resid|with|his|matern|grandfath|until|eighteen|vear|of|age|when
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and eighty-seven
he|encas|in|the|restaur|busi|in|philadelphia|he|also|becam|con
n|cud|th|the|same|enterpris|in|read|pennsylvania|whle|at|hom
te|tad|act|as|a|report|for|the|various|counti|paper
sea|isl|citi|he|vas|for|some|time|a|correspond|of|the|philadelphia
pipe|in|that|work|he|displav|mark|abihti|and|his|servic|therefor
ve|demand|by|mani|lead|iournal|at|one|i|one|lead|the
and|prescript|busi|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|open|a|hardr|stoie|m
s|a|le|citi|here|he|carri|a|larg|and|complet|line|of|shelf|and|heavi
hard|v|re|stove|and|rang|paint|and|oil|he|also|doe|a|plumb|and
nrooflng|busi|and|has|a|larg|stock|of|general|l|ff
occupv|two|stori|of|a|busi|block|thirtytwo|by|sixtyf|feet|in
the|svvare|busi|he|is|connect|with|jame|t|chapman|the|firm|name
bein|a|g|rice|compani
mr|rice|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|anna|simpson|he|vote|th
the|republican|parti|and|has|frequent|been|a|deleg|_
of|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|is|a|member|is|now|hold|the|pos
on|of|steward|and|truste|in|his|busi|dealmg|he|has|manifest|d
those|qualiti|which|insur|prosper|his|effort|have
the|legitim|channel|of|trade|and|have|not|been|extend|to|the|fi|id|o
specur|and|as|a|result|of|his|enterpris|and|unflag|industri|he|has
becom|one|of|the|lead|and|success|mercham|of|sea|isl|citi
samuel|e|tombleson
mr|tombleson|is|a|lead|agricultur|implement|dealer|of|cross|key
gloucest|counti|new|jersey|where|he|is|also|engag|in
this|farm|was|the|scene|of|his|birth|januari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|his|parent|be|sam
uel|and|sarah|a|nicholson|tombleson|the|grandfath|samuel|wa|a
german|and|took|part|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|the|father|took|possess|o|this
farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and|engag|in|the|lumber|busi|have|been|previous|in
that|busi|in|the|state|of|pennsylvania|he|had|also|made|hoop|larg
quantiti|of|which|he|ship|to|cuba|twenti|men|be|employ|by|him
to|fill|the|demand|made|for|them|by|that|island|he|was|a|good|busi
man|and|own|larg|tract|of|land|around|here|the|villag|of|cross|key
be|built|almost|entir|upon|his|properti|he|was|a|promin|demo
crat|and|an|honor|and|honor|member|of|the|independ|order|of
odd|fellow|he|was|marri|to|mar|a|nicholson|who|present|him
with|three|children|william|m|a|freehold|of|williamstown|samuel|e
and|joseph|a|resid|of|vineland|his|death|occur|at|his|home|m|this
villag|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|that|of|his|wife|the|follow|year
two hundred and eighty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
samuel|e|tombleson|receiv|his|educ|in|the|pubhc|school|and
earli|in|life|assist|his|father|in|his|outsid|busi|oper|for|nine
year|he|conduct|a|stage|line|from|cross|key|to|woodburj|and|in|all|that
time|lost|onli|twentysix|day|from|duti|except|from|sick|he|then
conduct|a|stage|line|from|cross|key|to|grenloch|for|five|year|his|next
ventur|was|in|the|mercantil|world|in|which|he|engag|in|sell|farm
implement|and|fertil|and|in|which|he|has|been|veri|success|he|is
energet|and|enterpris|and|has|built|up|a|larg|trade|in|this|section|where
he|is|well|known|and|everi|one|is|his|friend|he|own|thirti|acr|of|fine
land|which|he|devot|to|general|farm|and|own|as|much|or|more|real
estat|besid
he|was|marri|may|i8|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|to|miss|mari|a|a|daughter|of|mose
peas|of|cross|key|they|have|but|one|child|a|son|elvin|mr|tombl
son|is|a|member|of|the|methodist|church|of|which|he|is|a|steward|and|a|tnis
tee|and|is|a|granger
j|spicer|leam
j|spicer|learn|an|attorney|and|counselor|at|law|of|cape|may|citi
xew|jersey|was|bom|in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|novemb|sixteen
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|is|the|son|of|jacob|and|melvina|eldredg|leam|this|famili
repres|one|of|the|oldest|in|the|southern|section|of|the|state|their|repr
sentat|have|settl|here|in|earli|coloni|day|and|their|descend
have|sinc|contribut|to|the|upbuild|and|substanti|improv|of|the
counti
christoph|leam|the|greatgrandfath|was|bom|in|cape|may
counti|and|there|resid|throughout|his|life|he|marri|sarah|spicer|a
daughter|of|jacob|spicer|who|also|is|larg|identifi|with|the|earli|histori
of|the|counti|and|die|about|the|year|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-eight|and|left|surviv|him|sever
children|one|of|whom|spicer|leam|is|the|grandfath|of|our|subject
the|said|spicer|leam|was|born|in|lower|township|where|he|carri|on
agricultur|pursuit|own|consider|land|he|was|appoint|ensign|of
a|compani|of|light|artillen|of|the|cape|may|battalion|of|militia|by|major
xathaniel|holm|and|his|commiss|date|june|twenty-eight|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|and|sign|by
richard|howel|governor|is|in|the|possess|of|the|famili|he|marri
hannah|swain|and|at|his|death|left|suriv|him|seven|children|name
swain|who|marri|and|had|two|children|jame|and|spicer|jame|who
was|three|time|marri|and|had|a|larg|number|of|children|thoma|who
marri|late|in|life|a|miss|renold|and|made|his|home|in|philadelphia|his
death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|israel|who|marri|twice|and|left|but|one|daughter
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and eighty-nine
abigail|who|becam|the|wife|of|dr|wilham|sheppard|whose|children|are
noanliv|at|cape|may|citi|lemuel|who|marri|and|left|surviv|him
at|his|death|a|daughter|hannah|she|marri|wilmon|w|whilldin|who|is
larg|engag|in|realest|specul|at|west|palm|beach|florida|and
is|now|the|mayor|of|that|place|martha|who|was|twice|marri|her|first
husband|be|david|cress|they|had|sever|children|who|are|now|live
at|cape|may|and|jacob|who|was|the|youngest|and|the|father|of|our|subject
jacob|was|born|on|januari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|in|lower|township|cape|may
counti|where|he|live|the|greater|portion|of|his|life|and|was|identifi|with
the|agricultur|pursuit|of|that|locahti|live|on|a|farm|just|outsid|the
limit|of|the|citi|of|cape|may|which|has|been|in|the|learn|famili|ever
sinc|cape|may|was|first|settl|it|was|one|of|the|oldest|properti|if|not
the|oldest|in|this|section|of|the|state|the|farm|still|be|own|by|his|son
j|spicer|leam|our|subject|a|few|year|befor|his|death|he|retir|from
the|farm|and|spent|the|remaind|of|his|life|in|the|citi|of|cape|may|he
was|alway|a|republican|in|his|polit|as|had|been|all|of|the|famili|befor
him|although|never|an|aspir|for|ofific|he|marri|aliss|melvina|eld
redg|and|to|them|were|born|three|children|teresa|e|townsend|the|wife
of|edward|f|towaisend|an|architect|and|contractor|at|cape|may|citi
amanda|m|townsend|the|wife|of|f|sidney|townsend|who|also|resid|at
cape|may|citi|and|j|spicer|learn|the|father|of|these|children|die
januari|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|at|the|age|of|seventysix|year|and|the|mother|was|call
to|her|final|rest|januari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|also|age|seventysix
j|spicer|leam|spent|his|lioyhood|day|at|his|parent|home|and|ac
quir|his|preliminari|educ|in|the|common|school|after|which|he
continu|his|studi|in|pennington|seminari|and|in|dickinson|colleg
be|graduat|in|the|latter|institut|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|then
enter|the|law|offic|of|hon|f|carrol|brewster|of|philadelphia|pennsyl
vania|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|was|admit|to|the|pennsylvania|bar|as|an|attorney|and
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|was|admit|to|the|suprem|court|of|that|state|he|practic|law|in
the|citi|of|philadelphia|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|have|his|offic|at|six hundred and twenty-three|walnut|street
with|samuel|e|cavin|who|was|then|assist|citi|solicitor|li|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|on
account|of|the|declin|health|of|his|father|he|came|to|cape|may|where
after|be|admit|to|the|new|jersey|bar|he|establish|an|offic|and|has
sinc|been|engag|in|general|practic|at|present|he|is|the|corpor
counsel|for|the|citi|of|cape|iay|also|counti|solicitor|and|solicitor|for|the
lower|township|and|sever|of|the|borough
mr|leam|is|a|repuljlican|in|his|polit|affili|and|for|three
vear|serv|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|educ|he|belong|to|the
baptist|church|is|one|of|it|truste|and|it|financi|secretari|and|take|an
two hundred and ninety
biograph|histori|of|the|first
activ|and|zealous|interest|in|it|work|his|devot|to|the|interest|of|his
client|is|proverbi|and|he|invari|seek|to|present|his|argument|in|the
strong|clear|light|of|reason|and|sound|logic|principl
on|june|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|mr|learn|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|helen|a
daughter|of|dr|jonathan|f|leam|of|cape|may|court|hous|they|lost
their|onli|child|in|infanc
mr|leam|has|in|his|possess|an|old|ring|which|is|known|as|wash
ington|s|ring|and|which|was|given|by|georg|washington|to|lieuten
richard|somer|of|the|earli|unit|state|navi|who|present|it|to|his
sister|sarah|keen|she|gave|it|to|her|niec|sarah|s|corson|who|gave|it
to|her|son|dr|jonathan|f|leam|fatherinlaw|of|our|subject|in|the
set|which|adorn|the|ring|is|a|lock|of|washington|s|hair|protect|by|a
transpar|plate|follow|is|a|copi|of|the|affidavit|concern|this|ring
state|of|new|jersey
cape|may|counti|j
jonathan|f|leam|of|full|age|l|e|duli|sworn|accord|to|law|on
his|oath|say|that|he|is|the|son|of|william|leam|and|sarah|sophia|leam
ing|who|was|the|daughter|of|constant|and|sarah|somer|of|the|counti|of
gloucest|now|atlant|counti|that|the|said|constant|somer|was|the
brother|of|sarah|keen|wife|of|jona|keen|of|philadelphia|pennsylvania
and|of|richard|somer|of|the|earli|unit|state|navi|that|the|said|rich
ard|somer|then|a|lieuten|in|the|navi|upon|his|departur|to|the|metlit
ranean|under|commodor|prebl|in|the|war|with|tripoli|in|one thousand, eight hundred and three|deposit
all|his|valuabl|with|his|said|sister|sarah|keen|in|this|war|lieuten
somer|lost|his|life|septemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and four
constant|somer|be|dead|all|the|person|properti|of|lieuten
somer|pass|to|his|sister|the|said|sarah|keen|the|said|sarah|keen|die
intest|and|without|issu|and|her|estat|fell|to|her|niec|the|said|sarah
sophia|leam|who|had|intermarri|with|nichola|corson|of|this|counti
cape|may|and|depon|administ|the|estat|of|the|said|sarah|keen
deceas|among|the|person|effect|of|the|said|sarah|keen|was|a|peculiar
antiqu|finger|ring|which|was|alway|call|washington|s|ring|it|is|a|flat
gold|ring|with|a|squar|set|of|darkblu|enamel|on|the|outsid|edg
of|this|darkblu|enamel|squar|is|a|small|stripe|of|white|enamel|and|in|the
centr|of|said|squar|is|a|round|box|and|glass|contain|hair|surmount|by
thirteen|pearl|on|each|side|of|said|squar|on|the|shank|of|the|ring|are
altern|gold|and|lightblu|enamel|stripe|within|which|field|of|stripe|on
each|side|is|a|small|circl|of|darkblu|enamel|the|hair|contain|in|this
ring|is|said|to|be|that|of|georg|washington
this|depon|aver|that|he|has|frequent|heard|the|said|sarah|keen
declar|that|this|ring|was|present|to|her|brother|lieuten|richard
somer|by|georg|washington|the|first|presid|of|the|unit|state|and
that|the|hair|within|the|set|was|that|of|washington|and|that|her|brother
congressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|two hundred and ninety-one
had|left|the|said|ring|in|her|care|when|he|emlark|for|tripoli|the|said|wash
ington|s|ring|was|given|to|this|depon|hv|his|mother|the|said|sarah|sophia
corson|and|is|now|deposit|with|his|soninlaw|j|spicer|leammg|of
cape|may|citi|new|jersey
sworn|and|suhscrih|decemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
jonathan|f|leai
no|histori|of|southern|new|jersey|would|be|complet|without|the|record
of|the|learn|famili|for|no|other|has|so|long|been|identifi|with|cape
may|counti|or|born|so|conspicu|and|worthi|a|part|in|it|substanti
progress|and|develop|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and seventy|christoph|and|jeremiah
learn|brother|sail|from|england|to|the|new|world|but|the|latter
die|on|the|voyag|christoph|learn|land|in|boston|and|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-four
marri|estherburnett|a|daughter|of|aaron|burnett|of|sag|harbor|east
hampton|long|island|he|came|to|cape|may|counti|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one|locat|a
tract|of|land|of|two|hundr|and|four|acr|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|and|die|on|the|3d|of
may|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-five|his|wife|die|novemb|five|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen|they|were|the|parent|of
seven|children|thoma|jane|hannah|christoph|aaron|jeremiah|and
elizabeth|and|jeremiah|and|two|of|the|daughter|remov|to|new|england
thoma|learn|the|eldest|son|of|christoph|and|esther|leam
ing|the|progenitor|of|the|famili|in|america|was|born|at|southampton
long|island|on|the|9th|of|juli|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-four|and|came|to|cape|may|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-two|locat
ing|on|a|farm|he|marri|hannah|whilldin|a|daughter|of|joseph|whilldin
who|was|then|in|her|eighteenth|year|he|die|decemb|three hundred and eleven|seven hundred and twenty-three|at|the|age
of|fortynin|year|his|children|were|esther|born|juli|two|one thousand, seven hundred and two|merci
born|septemb|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and four|jane|born|octob|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and six|phebe|born|novem
ber|four|one thousand, seven hundred and eight|priscilla|born|june|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ten|christoph|born|april|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and twelve
and|thoma|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fourteen
christoph|leam|the|sixth|child|of|that|famili|marri|deborah
hand|and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|they|had|two|children|christoph|and|esther|y
but|the|latter|die|march|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-nine|at|the|age|of|twelv|year|the|former
marri|sarah|spicer|the|eldest|daughter|of|jacob|spicer|and|their|children
were|spicer|jacob|christoph|humphrey|allison|deborah|hannah|and
esther
christoph|leam|the|son|of|christoph|and|deborah|leam
went|to|the|west|was|marri|there|carri|on|a|prosper|busi|and
eventu|die
christoph|leam|the|sixth|was|the|son|of|jacob|who|was|the|son|of
christoph|4th|and|sarah|leam|he|marri|ann|i|iccray|a
two hundred and ninety-two
biograph|histori|of|the|first
daughter|of|john|and|hannah|eldredg|mccray|and|a|sister|of|jeremiah
and|jame|mccray|her|husband|die|novemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|but|she|is|still|liv
ing|in|the|eightythird|year|of|her|age
aaron|learn|who|was|the|son|of|christoph|and|esther|learn
and|the|founder|of|anoth|branch|of|the|famili|was|born|at|sag|harbor
near|east|hampton|long|island|octob|twelve|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|and|when|twentyseven
year|of|age|marri|lydia|shaw|the|widow|of|captain|william|shaw|and
a|daughter|of|john|pearson|their|wed|took|place|octob|twelve|one hundred and seventy-one|four
and|aaron|leam|die|in|philadelphia|june|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-six|at|the|age|of|fifti
eight|year|while|his|widow|die|octob|two|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-two|at|the|age|of|eightythre
year|tlieir|children|were|aaron|jeremiah|matthia|who|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two|at
the|age|of|fourteen|year|and|elizabeth|who|becam|the|wife|of|thoma
leam|and|had|two|children|thoma|and|lydia
aaron|the|eldest|son|of|aaron|and|lydia|shaw|leam|was|born
juli|six|seventeen|one|five|and|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|at|the|age|of|sixtyf|year|he|marri
marv|foreman|who|was|born|march|two|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-nine|a|daughter|of|jonathan|fore
man|b_|this|union|there|were|six|children|jonathan|who|was|born|juli
five|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|aaron|born|august|twenty-eight|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|sarah|one|orn|februari|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|math
ia|born|septemlj|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-nine|mari|born|c|ctoljer|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|and|person
who|was|born|juli|twenty-three|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-six|and|die|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and seven
of|this|famili|jonathan|leam|the|eldest|marri|margaret|stite
the|onli|child|of|john|and|priscilla|stite|on|the|3d|of|march|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three|and|they
becam|the|parent|of|a|daughter|priscilla|who|was|born|octob|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four
and|marri|humphrey|stite|of|this|union|five|children|were|born|mar
garet|the|wife|of|philip|cress|eliza|the|wife|of|jeremiah|cress|hannah
the|wife|of|aaron|leam|6th|and|mari|who|first|marri|eli|town
send|and|after|his|death|becam|the|wife|of|humphrey|stite|after|the|death
of|his|first|wife|jonathan|leam|wed|judith|hand|a|daughter|of|jere
miah|hand|and|they|had|two|son|aaron|4th|born|juli|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight|and
jonathan|2d
the|latter|jonathan|leam|2d|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject
was|born|in|cape|may|counti|in|juli|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|and|live|in|middl|township
near|cape|may|court|hous|follow|farm|throughout|his|busi
career|he|held|sever|local|offic|includ|that|of|counti|sheriff
he|was|a|member|of|a|train|compani|of|the|old|day|and|was|a
member|of|the|baptist|church|he|was|twice|marri|his|first|wife|bear
the|maiden|name|of|elizabeth|yate|their|children|were|william|judith
jonathan|priscilla|and|aaron|but|william|was|the|onli|one|who|left|a|fam
ilv|he|was|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|and|was|born|octob|seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six
in|middl|township|cape|may|counti|he|acquir|an|excel|educ
congression|district|of|a|f|jhrsev|two hundred and ninety-three
in|the|school|of|philadelphia|and|in|earli|life|engag|in|teach|he|he
came|a|gentleman|farmer|of|middl|township|where|he|own|an|extens
tract|of|land|which|he|cultiv|with|the|aid|of|his|negro|slave|but|befor
his|death|he|set|all|of|his|liondsmen|free|in|polit|he|was|a|whig|and|serv
as|justic|of|the|peac|in|his|religi|faith|he|was|a|baptist|he|was|twice
marri|his|first|union|be|with|catherin|wood|of|philadelphia|by|whom
he|had|two|children|eliza|who|marri|nelson|garrison|had|a|larg|famili
and|die|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|at|the|age|of|eightyf|year|and|william|s
who|marri|eliza|dougla|and|had|a|larg|number|of|children|the|grand
father|william|leam|was|a|second|time|marri|juli|six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|the|ladi|of
his|choic|be|sarah|sophia|somer|a|daughter|of|constanc|somer|of
atlant|counti|their|children|were|catherin|who|was|born|may|nineteen
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|and|die|in|octob|of|the|same|year|jonathan|furman|and|julia|the
wife|of|reuben|townsend|a|farmer|by|whom|she|had|a|daughter|florenc
the|wife|of|rev|charl|warwick|of|philadelphia|mr|leam|the
grandfath|die|januari|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|his|second|wife|was|born|octob|eleven
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-five|and|die|juli|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|fter|the|death|of|her|first|husband|she|mar
rie|nichola|corson|and|had|a|daughter|priscilla|the|deceas|wife|of
captain|henri|t|corson|of|south|seavill
hon|jonathan|furman|leam|fulli|sustain|the|high|reput|which
the|famili|has|alway|born|in|fact|has|gain|new|laurel|and|has|left|the
impress|of|his|strong|individu|upon|the|public|interest|of|the|state|he
was|born|in|cape|may|counti|septemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|and|was|provid|with
excel|educ|advantag|have|attend|colgat|lh|ivers|in
new|york|he|later|matricul|in|brown|lnivers|where|he|complet
his|literari|cours|subsequ|he|was|graduat|in|the|jefterson|ledic
colleg|of|philadelphia|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|at|onc|enter|upon|the
prosecut|of|his|chosen|profess|he|was|marri|februari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven
to|eliza|h|bennett|of|cape|may|court|hous|and|locat|at|seavill|this
counti|and|continu|the|practic|of|medicin|for|fourteen|year|when|his
health|fail|him|and|he|was|forc|to|put|asid|his|profession|care
dr|leam|then|pursu|a|cours|in|the|pennsylvania|dental|colleg|in
philadelphia|and|after|his|graduat|open|an|ofific|in|cape|mav|court
hous|where|he|soon|won|prestig|as|a|repres|of|the|latter|profe
sion|his|mark|skill|and|abil|secur|to|him|a|liber|patronag|and
he|continu|his|activ|connect|with|the|scienc|of|dentistri|for|mani
year|when|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|his|health|again|fail|him|and|he|retir|permancntlv
to|privat|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|the|degre|of|a|m|was|confer|upon|him|by|the
univers|at|lewisburg|pennsylvania|and|in|i860|the|degre|of|doctor|of
two hundred and ninety-four
bloguaptllc|histori|of|the|first
dental|surgeri|was|confer|upon|him|l|y|the|pennsylvania|colleg|of|den
tal|surgeri
the|doctor|has|lieen|honor|with|various|posit|of|trust|and|respon
sibil|and|over|his|public|career|there|fall|no|shadow|of|wrong|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one
he|was|elect|to|the|xew|jersey|assembl|and|the|follow|year|was
elect|to|the|senat|for|a|threeyear|term|dure|that|time|he|was|the
chairman|of|the|committe|on|educ|and|a|member|of|sever|other|veri
import|committe|his|cours|as|a|legisl|fulli|justifi|the|expecta
tion|of|his|friend|place|him|among|the|most|use|enhghten|and
judici|member|of|the|senat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|he|was|elect|the|surrog|of|the
counti|for|five|year|and|on|the|expir|of|that|term|was|again|elect|for
five|year|but|resign|on|the|ist|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|in|order|to|accept|the
posit|of|senat|to|which|he|was|again|elect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|onc|more|tak
ing|his|seat|in|the|upper|hous|he|was|made|a|member|of|the|committe|on
commerc|navig|miscellan|busi|and|of|other|import|com
mitte|he|has|ever|been|a|stanch|republican|and|has|labor|earnest
for|the|welfar|of|the|parti|which|advoc|progress|protect|and|expan
sion|he|has|alway|favor|the|movement|and|organ|which|have
upheld|true|american|and|in|earli|hfe|support|the|whig|part|and|the
american|or|knownoth|parti
on|the|22d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|dr|leam|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|eliza|bennett|a|daughter|of|aaron|and|mari|hildreth|bennett|to
them|were|born|four|children|walter|s|born|novemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|is|now
engag|in|the|practic|of|dentistri|edmund|bennett|born|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven
studi|law|with|judg|jame|buchanan|of|trenton|new|jersey|for|a|pre
ceptor|was|admit|to|the|bar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|practic|for|a|time|in|camden|and
is|now|a|legal|practition|in|san|francisco|california|helen|is|the|wife|of
j|spicer|leam|herbert|born|august|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|die|at|the|age|of
twelv|year|for|his|second|wife|dr|leam|chose|mrs|josephin
young|a|sister|of|his|first|wife|their|marriag|be|celeljr|octob|twenty-four
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight
the|doctor|is|a|valu|member|of|various|civic|societi|belong|to|the
lodg|and|encamp|in|the|odd|fellow|fratern|and|has|fill|the|local
ofific|was|a|member|of|cape|island|lodg|f|a|m|of|cape|may|and
in|his|life|exemplifi|the|ennol|ling|principl|of|these|organ|he|is
also|a|member|of|the|baptist|church|with|which|he|has|been|identifi|for
sixti|year
for|an|account|of|the|histor|washington|ring|in|the|possess|of
the|leam|famili|see|sketch|of|j|s|icer|leam|in|this|work
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|two hundred and ninety-five
boardman|reed|m|d
dr|boardmau|reed|is|a|son|of|william|n|and|hylinda|l|harmon
reed|and|a|randson|of|william|reed|and|he|was|born|april|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|at
scotlsn|new|york|he|was|a|student|at|beaver|dam|colleg|xn|fifty-nine
and|at|beloit|colleg|eighteen thousand, six hundred and sixty-seven|both|in|wisconsin|and|seven|f
of|the|junior|vear|in|the|univers|of|pennsylvama|philadelphia|he|e
ceiv|wo|prize|while|in|colleg|one|in|his|freshman|year|for|make|the
greatest|advanc|of|all|the|student|in|the|colleg|dure|the|year|and
ae|other|for|the|best|essay|on|a|subject|in|metaphys|dure|his|junior|year
he|began|to|read|medicin|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|but|did|not|enter|a|medic|colleg|until
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|attend|two|cours|of|lectur|in|the|medic|depart|of|the
ui|rsiti|of|pennsylvania|with|dr|matthew|j|grier|of|phi|adelphia|as
his|preceptor|and|receiv|the|degre|of|m|d|at|the|close|of|the|second
h|e|f|the|practic|of|medicin|in|west|philadelphia|immedi
atelv|and|while|wait|for|patient|took|a|cours|at|the|philad|phia
lyingin|chariti|hospit|and|assist|dr|r|g|cretin|at|the|medica|dis
pensari|of|the|univers|hospit|besid|assist|for|a|while|the|late|dn
charl|s|t|hunter|in|the|surgic|outward|of|the|pennsylvama|hospit|m
the|same|citi|earli|in|the|follow|summer|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|dr|reed|open|an
offic|at|atlant|citi|new|jersey|where|he|practic|dure|the|larg
part|of|everi|vear|until|the|autumn|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|the|winter|of|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and twenty-three|he|spen
in|thomasill|georgia|in|the|practic|of|his|profess|the|winter|of
188s6|he|devot|to|studi|abroad|in|the|hospit|of|london|vienna|and
pari|while|in|vienna|he|studi|under|oser|the|diseas|of|the|stomach
and|intestin|at|the|polyklin|and|under|rosenth|at|the|augemein
krankenhaus|diseas|of|the|nervous|system|he|also|pursu|postgradu
ate|studi|in|various|branch|at|the|new|york|polyclin|and|the|post
graduat|medic|school|in|one hundred and eighty-eight thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|dure|the|latter|part|of
one thousand, eight hundred and four|dr|reed|took|a|cours|on|diseas|of|the|stomach|and|mtestm|under
professor|f|b|turck|at|the|postgradu|medic|school|in|chicago
he|was|attend|physician|to|the|seashor|hous|for|invalid|women|at
lantic|citi|new|jersey|eighteen thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|and|was|consult|physician|at|the|jewish
seasid|home|atlant|citi|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|until|he|remov|from|that|p|ace
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|spent|part|of|the|winter|in|berlin|germani|studi|diseas|of|the
digest|system|under|professor|ewald|and|dr|boa|for|the|past|six
year|he|has|been|devot|special|attent|to|diseas|of|the|digest|sys
tem|with|an|offic|in|philadelphia|dure|the|past|four|year|though|resid
in|hammonton|new|jersey|of|late|for|the|past|two|year|he|has|been
two hundred and ninety-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|editor|of|the|intern|medic|alagazin|he|has|written|larg
for|that|journal|besid|mani|paper|for|other|medic|journal|on|subject
connect|with|his|specialti
dr|reed|was|a|promin|factor|in|the|build|up|of|atlant|citi|hav
ing|taken|an|activ|part|in|establish|the|sanitari|improv|of|the|citi
particular|dure|the|three|year|he|was|a|member|and|presid|of|the
board|of|health|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|began|write|up|the|place|as|a|winter|health
resort|distribut|his|articl|throughout|the|countri|in|pamphlet|fonn|and
through|the|medic|journal|result|secur|larg|through|his|untir
efifort|were|a|complet|system|of|underground|sewerag|and|an|efcient
inspect|at|frequent|interv|of|the|sanitari|condit|of|the|citi
dr|reed|was|among|the|first|volunt|to|enlist|as|a|privat|earli|in|the
civil|war|he|was|twice|wound|in|the|virginia|campaign|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he
was|elect|captain|of|compani|i|fiftieth|wisconsin|volunt|infantri
and|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|was|muster|out|of|servic
dr|reed|is|a|member|of|the|philadelphia|counti|medic|societi|of|the
philadelphia|patholog|societi|an|associ|member|of|the|philadelphia
obstetr|societi|an|honorari|member|of|the|atlant|citi|academi|of
medicin|and|member|of|the|american|medic|associ|he|was|re
centli|elect|foreign|member|of|the|french|societi|of|electrotherapi
he|is|the|author|of|numer|medic|paper|publish|in|this|countri|and
in|europ|he|also|belong|to|the|penn|club|and|to|the|union|leagu|of
philadelphia
in|one|eighty-seven|one|he|marri|miss|gertrud|r|phelp|of|philadelphia|pennsyl
vania|and|they|have|two|children|harmon|phelp|and|helen|f|k|reed
jame|e|dunham
in|review|the|historv|of|jame|everett|dunham|one|is|remind|of
the|word|of|a|great|new|york|financi|if|you|are|not|a|success|do|not
blame|the|time|you|live|in|do|not|blame|the|place|you|occupi|do|not|blame
the|circumst|you|are|surround|with|lay|the|blame|where|is|belong
to|yourself|not|in|time|place|or|circumst|but|in|the|man|lie|success
if|you|want|success|you|must|pay|the|price|realiz|the|truth|of|this
mr|dunham|has|paid|the|price|of|concentr|efifort|of|indefatig|en
ergi|or|persever|and|well|appli|busi|principl|and|has|won|the
victori|which|he|start|out|to|win|year|ago
the|dunham|famili|is|one|of|the|honor|one|of|salem|counti|joseph
dunham|the|father|of|jame|e|was|a|lifelong|resid|of|lower|penn|s
tnv|yf
congression|district|of|new|jersey|two hundred and ninety-seven
neck|township|he|was|an|except|fine|mechan|and|made|a|good
yous|hood|for|himself|and|famili|for|a|wife|he|clenaom|madden|and
to|them|eight|children|were|born|name|jeremiah|david|joseph|sarah
vife|ofwihiam|zane|jame|e|mari|ellen|who|marri|thoma|counsel
o|tna|wife|of|isaac|horner|a|farmer|near|greenwich|and|lizzi|who
diek|h|childhood|all|of|these|children|have|pass|to|the|siknt|land|with
t|except|of|our|subject|and|their|parent|depart|this|life|mani|year
ago
tame|e|dunham|was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck|township|februari
four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|his|educ|was|obtain|in|the|school|of|that|local|and|in
salem|dure|the|winter|term|the|rest|of|the|year|be|devot|to|farm
wort|his|father|dving|when|the|lad|was|about|ten|year|of|age|he|start
orth|to|e|rn|his|own|live|and|from|that|time|forward|was|depend|upon
his|nativ|resourc|until|he|was|sixteen|year|of|age|he|was|employ|on
t|e|farm|of|mark|stretch|and|then|enter|upon|a|regular|fveyear|appren
ticeship|to|richard|c|balling|a|bricklay|and|contractor|hmg|tlor
oughlv|master|the|trade|he|embark|m|busi|and|smce|i860|las
command|a|larg|share|of|the|build|and|contract|o|salem
and|vicin|manv|of|the|finest|busi|block|public|structur|and|pnva|e
sidencesof|the|place|stand|as|monument|to|his|skill|d|w|no|a|x
few|except|all|of|the|brick|and|better|class|of|build|of|salem|eie
erect|under|his|supervis|for|about|forti|year|he|has|had|the|repu|ta
tion|of|be|the|most|extens|contractor|in|his|line|in|the|un|and
often|has|given|employ|to|as|mani|as|thirtyf|men|among|one|e
substantialbuild|which|he|has|construct|a|few|may|be|n|one|th
salem|nation|bank|the|salem|opera|hous|dr|pat|erson|lo|i|an
and|walnut|street|schoolhous|the|baptist|memori|church|and|seeral
fine|resid|besid|mani|of|the|brick|build|and|attract|resid
of|millvill|and|other|town|were|erect|by|mr|dunham|whose|reput
as|a|contractor|and|builder|is|widespread|and|great|to|be|envi|his
own|beauti|brick|and|brownston|resid|built|by|him|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|is|a
fine|exampl|of|modern|architectur|and|style|and|is|conced|to|be|one|of
the|finest|home|in|salem|and|salem|counti
he|has|also|been|interest|in|various|local|enterpris|and|m|open
wesley|street|he|made|a|new|and|conveni|mean|of|communic|with
the|busi|center|for|the|resid|of|that|portion|of|the|town|at|one
time|he|was|financi|concern|in|an|ice|busi|give|employ|to
about|seventyf|men|everi|season|for|a|number|of|year|prosper|at
tend|his|industri|and|well|direct|effort|and|he|is|now|in|the|pos
session|of|a|comfort|compet|he|own|some|fine|town|properti|and
two hundred and ninety-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
one|of|the|finest|best|improv|farm|in|the|counti|compris|one|hundr
and|fourteen|acr|and|situat|in|iannington|township
in|his|polit|prefer|air|dunham|favor|the|republican|parti
fratern|he|is|connect|with|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow
and|is|a|charter|member|of|fenwick|lodg|xo|one hundred and sixty-four|in|the|methodist
episcop|church|he|has|long|been|look|upon|as|one|of|the|lead|mem
ber|and|has|serv|as|truste|steward|and|in|various|other|ofcial|posit
in|the|congreg
the|marriag|of|mr|dunham|and|melissa|hust|was|solemn|no
vember|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|she|was|a|daughter|of|john|c|and|emelin|smith|hus
ted|the|former|of|whom|die|in|salem|after|which|the|mother|becam|the
wife|of|charl|baker|and|had|two|children|by|that|union|name|charl
and|david|mrs|dunham|was|the|second|of|the|ten|children|born|to|lier
parent|the|other|be|illiam|alonzo|emelin|smith|clement|dayton
and|three|who|die|in|earli|childhood|the|marriag|of|our|subject|and
wife|was|bless|with|ten|children|the|eldest|born|elois|amanda|villi
marri|charl|brandifif|a|bricklay|by|trade|and|a|resid|of|salem|and
their|three|children|are|ilbur|anna|and|david|emma|is|the|second|child
in|order|of|birth|ilbur|the|third|marri|salli|harri|and|they|have|had
three|children|jame|grace|and|bessi|of|whom|the|two|eldest|have|die
fanni|is|the|fourth|child|of|our|subject|lydia|the|next|is|the|wife|of
richard|ernest|a|blacksmith|and|carriag|manufactur|of|clayvill|this
counti|and|their|children|are|georg|frank|robert|richard|merril|win
field|and|naona|fenwick|archer|dunham|marri|salli|head|and|their
children|are|name|melissa|fenwick|a|and|kati|margaret|albert|sher
ron|marri|agnolia|payn|and|has|three|children|jame|e|hariiet|and
albert|harr|sickler|dunham|was|marri|januari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|to|eva|a
daughter|of|jame|h|darlington|of|alloway|salem|counti|frank|who
live|in|atlant|citi|is|like|his|elder|brother|a|bricklay|by|trade|lizzi
v|the|youngest|of|this|larg|and|promis|famili|is|the|wife|of|david|m
ayr|a|machinist|of|salem|and|their|littl|son|are|name|robert|d|and
harri|our|subject|and|wife|have|reason|to|be|proud|of|their|children|all
of|whom|are|industri|patriot|citizen|a|credit|to|the|sever|communi
tie|in|which|thev|dwell
duncan|campbel|m|d
duncan|campbel|jni|d|though|but|recent|becom|a|memlier|of|the
gloucest|counti|medic|profess|has|alreadi|won|a|high|place|in|the
regard|of|the|public|and|his|prospect|for|the|futur|are|most|flatter|he
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|two hundred and ninety-nine
is|a|worthv|scion|of|a|sterl|old|scotch|fam|ly|have|inherit|mani|of
the|best|characterist|of|that|hardi|upright|race
in|trachg|his|histori|the|follow|interesthg|fact|have|been|gleanel
i|seven hundred and ninety-eight|his|ancestor|peter|campbel|and|the|latter|s|wife|catherm|and
hnt|daughter|jennett|left|breadalban|perthshir|scotland|n|com
lvth|about|twentv|person|marri|and|singl|seekmga|hon|you
ameri|he|land|of|the|free|sail|from|greenock|they|arriv|in|ne
y|jciti|after|a|tedious|long|voyag|and|at|onc|p
in|the|same|state|where|they|remain|for|some|time|colonel|ilhamson
i|ole|pultnev|estat|near|the|big|spring|himself|a|scotchman|learn
s|of|the|arriv|of|his|countrymen|went|to|interview|the|parti|and|tri|to
i|duce|them|to|locat|upon|land|own|by|the|compani|he|repres
hoff|were|generous|in|the|extrem|and|the|result|was|that|he|was|taken
nt|his|word|h|agre|to|sell|the|properti|at|three|dollar|an|acr|payabl
one|wheat|at|six|shiu|a|bushel|and|moreov|provid|necessari|pros
icn|nd|farm|implement|while|a|crop|was|be|rais|t|assist|his
friend|in|everv|practic|manner|possibl|peter|campbel|select|a
av|v|timber|tract|of|land|one|hundr|and|seventyf|acr|m|ex|ten
n|one|siuiat|just|north|of|the|spring|mention|the|rude|og|cabin|whi|h
h|b|lilt|at|fi|st|was|soon|supplant|by|a|substanti|frame|dwell|which
inth|some|alter|and|improv|stand|on|the|homestead|today|in
a|fine|state|of|preserv
trle|to|the|old|covenant|spirit|one|of|the|first|matter|which|engag
the|attent|of|these|earli|settler|at|caledonia|as|the|place|was|calledwa
that|of|hold|religi|servic|a|meet|was|held|at|the|hous|of|peter
campbel|novemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and two|for|the|purpos|of|organ|a|congreg
aikl|sever|import|step|toward|this|end|were|taken|five|truste|were
elect|mr|campbel|be|one|of|the|number|and|a|name|as|dead|d
uponth|presbvterian|rdigious|societi|of|caledonia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|the
offic|of|rule|elder|was|confer|upon|mr|campbel|who|for|twentyeight
vear|administ|it|duti|with|fidel|his|certif|of|citizenship
bear|date|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|give|killin|perthshir|scotland|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|j
and|date|of|his|birth|anl|it|was|upon|the|9th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|that|he
pass|to|his|reward|his|wife|who|was|a|nativ|of|the|sarn|town|born|m
one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|die|novemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|they|were|buri|at|mumford|new|ork
and|five|of|their|eight|children|repos|in|the|same|peac|god|s|acr|jen
nett|who|as|alreadv|mention|was|their|eldestborn|scotland|be|the
place|of|her|nativitv|is|sleep|her|last|sleep|at|the|esques|ontario
cemeteri|christiana|the|second|daughter|lie|buri|at|kenosha|w|iscon
three hundred|biograph|histori|of|the|first
sin|and|john|p|was|inter|at|nelson|xeliraska|tlie|other|children|were
name|respect|duncan|daniel|peter|p|alexand|and|ann
on|the|19th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|the|one|hundredth|anniversari|of|the|com
ing|of|peter|campbel|and|famili|to|america|was|celebr|in|a|pleasant|and
fit|manner|by|a|number|of|his|direct|descend|who|assembl|at|the
old|caledonia|homestead|among|those|present|were|some|of|the|grand
children|and|greatgrandchildren|of|the|pioneer|peter|campbel|and|of|those
who|came|from|a|distanc|were|dr|duncan|campbel|of|woodburi|miss
christabel|campbel|of|denver|colorado|miss|florenc|campbel|of
brooklyn|new|york|and|rev|john|p|campbel|of|baltimor|maryland
a|short|and|veri|enjoy|program|was|carri|out|it|be|as|follow
sing|of|america|prayer|by|rev|j|a|sherrard|remark|by|rev|j|p
campbel|reminisc|of|peter|campbel|by|mrs|charl|clark|mrs|f
c|well|and|mr|jame|denoon|remark|by|a|f|mcpherson|and|sing
of|home|sweet|home|mani|of|the|fact|glean|from|those|who|had
known|peter|campbel|were|grate|receiv|by|those|present|and|will|be
treasur|by|them|mrs|clark|told|the|compani|that|the|first|sundayschool
at|caledonia|was|organ|by|mr|campbel|and|dr|peter|mcpherson|and
that|she|was|one|of|the|pupil|in|this|school|as|were|mrs|well|and|mrs
lydia|cameron|they|met|in|a|schoolhous|which|stood|for|mani|year
upon|a|lot|now|own|by|john|connor|on|north|street|just|south|of|the
railroad|track|mr|denoon|relat|numer|interest|thing|in|regard
to|the|charact|habit|and|person|appear|of|mr|campbel|the
pioneer|and|rev|j|p|campbel|spoke|feel|of|the|old|home|belong
to|that|worthi|man|his|grandfath|the|hous|which|was|the|birthplac|of
his|the|minist|s|father|and|himself|he|spoke|of|the|elev|atmo
phere|of|this|pioneer|home|of|the|good|influenc|which|eman|from|it
sacr|wall|and|of|the|day|when|the|neighbor|were|will|not|t6|assembl|there
on|the|sabbath|to|worship|god|the|hardship|which|were|brave|and
cheer|endur|by|the|earli|settler|of|caledonia|were|mention|at|some
length|as|well|as|the|success|the|comfort|home|and|fortun|which|they
made|for|themselv|and|children|in|time|and|the|indel|impress|of|their
nobl|christian|live|upon|their|own|and|succeed|generat|amidst
all|of|the|chang|which|the|centuri|has|brought|it|was|point|out|that|the
boundari|of|the|old|homestead|are|almost|ident|today|with|those|of
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-nine|when|the|land|was|laid|out
peter|p|campbel|the|father|of|the|subject|of|this|sketch|was|born|and
rear|upon|this|histor|old|farm|and|from|youth|until|old|age|he|follow
agricultur|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|he|remain|upon|the|old|homestead
make|numer|valuabl|improv|thereon|and|buy|addit
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and one
properti|from|time|to|time|he|was|a|publicspirit|citizen|a|faith|mem
ber|of|the|presbyterian|church|and|for|a|quarter|of|a|centuri|a|rulmg|elder
his|influenc|alway|be|use|in|the|further|of|upright|and|prog
ress|he|was|twice|marri|by|his|frst|union|have|five|children|name
catherin|peter|p|who|wed|elizabeth|mcpherson|jane|the|wife|of
robert|ritchi|daniel|p|deceas|and|jame|p|the|second|wife|of|peter
p|campbel|sr|margaret|mckenzi|was|likewis|of|scotch|extract
and|their|children|were|margaret|a|rev|john|p|now|a|resid|of|bal
timor|maryland|elizabeth|jennett|alexand|p|ellen|mari|the|wife|of
hugh|campbel|christabel|of|denver|colorado|florenc|a|of|brooklyn
new|york|eva|j|and|duncan
the|last|name|the|youngest|of|the|famili|was|born|m|caledonia|xew
york|and|there|master|the|rudiment|of|knowledg|in|the|public|school
thenh|engag|in|teach|school|for|a|few|term|after|which|he|enter
the|geneseo|normal|school|of|geneseo|new|york|and|for|two|year|studi
ousli|appli|his|attent|to|the|higher|branch|of|scienc|and|literatur
next|we|find|him|in|a|school|in|baltimor|where|scholar|are|special|pre
pare|for|futur|work|in|the|john|hopkin|univers|but|at|the|close|of|a
year|in|that|institut|he|was|enrol|at|princeton|colleg|where|he|was
duli|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|rt
it|was|in|the|autumn|of|that|year|that|the|doctor|enter|upon|his|life
wnk|l|v|becom|a|student|m|hahnemann|medic|colleg|at|philadel
phia|and|after|take|a|thorough|cours|of|instruct|he|was|honor|by
have|the|degre|of|doctor|of|medicin|bestow|upon|him|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|with
he|addit|reward|for|his|conscienti|and|meritori|cours|of|be
chosen|to|act|as|the|resid|physician|of|hahnemann|hospit|he|re
main|there|for|one|vear|with|such|success|attend|his|labor|as|a|physi
cian|that|he|was|then|elect|to|the|chair|of|medic|terminolog|m|the|col
lege|a|posit|he|still|retain
on|the|7th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|dr|campbel|came|to|woodburi|where|he
took|charg|of|the|practic|of|the|late|dr|c|g|abbott|till|his|death|sinc
that|timedr|campbel|has|conduct|the|practic|alon|his|success|and
popular|be|of|the|most|pronounc|kind|he|is|a|great|student|de
vote|much|of|his|limit|leisur|to|studi|of|medic|scienc|and|kindr
subject|he|is|a|member|of|the|west|jersey|medic|societi|the|truso
medic|club|the|alumni|associ|of|hahnemann|colleg|and|the|ger
mantown|medic|societi|he|is|unmarri|and|is|deserv|popular|m|the
local|societi|of|woodburi|and|everi|place|in|which|he|has|dwelt|in|his
polit|the|doctor|is|a|republican
three hundred and two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
william|a|summeril
william|a|summeril|who|was|born|april|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|is|one|of|the|repr
sentat|young|busi|men|of|the|borough|of|penn|s|grove|and|on|ac
count|of|his|posit|as|editor|and|manag|of|a|local|newspap|the|rec
ord|wield|a|wide|influenc|in|this|communiti|he|is|intens|patriot
do|all|within|his|power|to|promot|the|welfar|of|his|local|and|by|the
wisdom|and|sound|good|sens|which|he|exercis|at|all|time|he|has|won|the
good|will|and|genuin|regard|of|those|who|know|him
one|of|the|oldest|and|most|honor|famili|of|salem|counti|is|the|one
to|which|mr|summeril|belong|and|those|who|have|born|the|name|are
often|mention|in|the|histori|of|the|religi|and|polit|parti|of|the
counti|the|ancestri|can|be|trace|for|about|one|hundr|and|seventyf
year|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|judg|william|summeril|was|a
man|of|mean|and|influenc|when|in|the|nrime|of|life|and|took|a|lead
part|in|the|build|of|the|delawar|river|railroad|which|prove|of|such
great|benefit|to|this|section|of|the|state|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|was|a|lay
judg|of|the|counti|court|he|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|depart|this|life|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|mourn|by|a|larg|circl|of|lifelong|friend|his|wife|hannah|a
summeril|live|to|be|eightythre|year|of|age|she|was|likewis|a|repr
sentat|of|an|old|coloni|famili|of|this|counti|the|yanneman|her
father|was|daniel|vanneman|a|lead|farmer|and|busi|man|of|penn|s
neck|to|the|union|of|william|and|hannah|summeril|two|son|were|born
josiah|and|daniel|v|the|latter|now|a|success|farmer|and|the|chosen|free
holder|of|upper|penn|s|neck|township
the|father|of|our|subject|is|josiah|summeril|of|upper|penn|s|neck
township|salem|counti|a|well|known|citizen|who|at|present|is|serv|as
collector|of|tax|for|his|township|which|posit|he|has|held|continu
for|twentyf|year|he|is|also|a|director|of|the|salem|nation|bank
compani|his|wife|whose|maiden|name|was|salli|austin|is|the|onli
daughter|of|william|austin|by|his|first|wife|mari|ann|watson|her|parent
were|resid|of|pile|grove|township|where|their|onli|son|samuel|is|now
make|him|home
william|a|summeril|was|rear|in|the|usual|occup|of|farmer|lad
and|after|complet|a|districtschool|educ|he|enter|pennington|s
seminari|where|he|was|graduat|at|the|age|of|eighteen|year|return
then|to|the|home|farm|he|remain|there|until|twentytwo|year|of|age
devot|his|attent|to|general|agricultur|duti|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four
he|and|his|cousin|daniel|v|summeril|jr|form|a|busi|connect
and|togeth|conduct|the|penn|grove|record|and|carri|on|general
i7tcoittiyi
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and three
print|until|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|when|the|junior|partner|retir|from|the|firm
william|a|summeril|has|sinc|continu|the|busi|alon|and|has|made
the|record|a|wideawak|interest|local|journal|it|has|been|chang
from|a|six|to|an|eightcolumn|sheet|and|various|other|improv|have
been|institut|thus|place|the|record|on|a|par|with|the|lead|journal
of|the|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|the|enterpris|publish|built|a|new|and|modern
print|ofc|and|equip|it|with|uptod|machineri
the|record|was|establish|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|by|the|rev|j|w
laughlin|of|the|new|jersey|methodist|protest|confer|who|sold|it
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|to|joseph|d|whitak|mr|whitak|sold|it|to|the|firm
of|summeril|summeril|fifteen|year|ago
the|subject|of|this|review|is|also|a|land|surveyor|the|onli|one|of|the
borough|for|the|past|ten|year|he|has|been|appoint|by|the|legislatur
to|be|a|commission|of|deed|and|in|connect|with|the|duti|of|that
ofc|doe|consider|conveyanc|of|properti
the|marriag|of|william|a|summeril|and|miss|kate|h|weigher
daughter|of|william|webber|of|cours|land|salem|counti|was|solem
nize|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|four|children|two|son|and|two|daughter|were|born|of|the
union|name|william|w|mari|frederick|and|verna|he|live|in|a
pleasant|home|on|south|broad|street|and|delight|more|in|a|quiet|happi
home|life|with|his|famili|than|in|societi|have|a|refin|literari|tast|he
has|accumul|a|choic|privat|librari|and|is|most|pleas|when|sur
round|by|his|book|and|paper|yet|he|has|a|pleas|address|and|is
social|with|all|he|meet|mr|summeril|is|a|member|of|emanuel|methodist
episcop|church|is|a|truste|and|a|steward|and|for|sever|year|has|taken
an|activ|part|in|sundayschool|work|as|superintend|and|teacher|the
summeril|famili|has|been|identifi|with|this|church|sinc|it|organ|in
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|the|first|church|in|penn|s|grove|and|have|held|posit|in|the
denomin|sinc|it|establish|in|upper|penn|s|neck|township|in|the
earli|part|of|the|centuri|william|a|summeril|repres|the|fourth|con
secut|generat|that|has|held|ofiic|in|the|church
the|whitak|famili
the|follow|compil|compris|note|on|the|histori|of|the|whitak
famili|past|and|present
everi|name|is|an|embodi|more|or|less|success|of|a|fact|it|is
not|alway|discover|yet|alway|exist|the|present|adopt|link|it
with|a|past|which|still|carri|it|suggest|of|the|occup|or|home|the
three hundred and four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
kindr|name|of|hitacr|miitacar|ahitak|whittak|etc|are|be
liev|to|have|been|the|same|origin|and|written|whitacr|mean|white
acr|the|name|is|found|in|english|histori|as|earli|as|the|fourteenth|cen
tur|and|it|onc|identifi|a|local|in|england|of|the|sever|coat|of
arm|distinguish|the|famili|in|it|differ|branch|one|bear|the|inter
est|motto|robur|atqu|fide|other|name|such|as|whither|hite
field|whittier|etc|are|suppos|to|have|sprung|from|the|same|root
among|the|emin|whitak|of|england|are|the|rev|illiam|whit
aker|the|master|of|st|john|s|colleg|at|cambridg|an|antipap|writer
who|die|in|one thousand, five hundred and ninety-five|and|the|rev|jeremiah|whitak|who|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-three|was|elect
a|member|of|the|assembl|of|estminst|and|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-seven|fill|the|oflfic|of
moder|he|die|in|london|june|ist|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-four|he|had|a|son|robert|who
was|a|puritan|disput|preacher|and|writer|also|rev|john|miitak
who|publish|man|volum|of|local|and|british|histori|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight
and|the|rev|edward|w|whitak|celebr|for|his|part|in|establish
the|refug|for|the|destitut|in|london|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|the
genealogist|and|the|genealogist|s|guid|english|public|give
sever|whitak|pedigre|the|name|is|still|numer|and|honor
in|evid|in|england
the|first|miitak|in|this|countrj|is|believ|to|have|been|the|rev
alexand|whitak|call|the|apostl|a|son|of|the|rev|william|hita
ker|abov|mention|he|was|born|in|one thousand, five hundred and eighty-five|at|cambridg|england|came
to|virginia|in|one hundred and sixty-one|one|and|was|put|in|charg|of|the|episcop|church|at|hen
rico|this|was|the|second|parish|establish|in|virginia|on|the|glebe|of
one|hundr|acr|belong|to|the|church|he|built|a|parsonag|call
rock|hall|pocahonta|was|baptiz|in|the|henrico|church|and|marri
to|john|rolf|by|mr|miitak|her|baptism|is|the|subject|of|a|paint|in
the|rotunda|of|the|capitol|at|washington|d|c
georg|whittacr|was|a|passeng|on|the|william|of|london|bound
from|virginia|to|london|thirteen|may|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-four|other|whose|name|were|of|a
differ|spell|were|in|virginia|as|earh|as|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-six|and|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|and|elsewher
in|the|seventeenth|centuri|take|up|land|on|this|side|of|the|atlant|at
the|present|time|there|are|sever|whitak|famili|appar|not|relat
but|when|a|name|can|be|proven|to|be|five|or|six|centuri|old|it|is|not|dififi
cult|to|understand|how|trace|of|the|brokenof|branch|even|from|one|par
ent|in|the|long|ago|can|be|lost|in|new|home|in|new|place|with|the|same
spirit|of|adventur|it|is|true|of|larg|famili|in|less|than|one|hundr
year|where|the|member|are|widel|separ
we|have|in|this|countri|the|old|connecticut|famili|the|iron|whitak
of|phoenixvill|pennsylvania|to|whom|the|distinguish|judg|samuel
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and five
whitak|pennypack|of|philadelphia|belong|those|of|alaryland|new
york|and|other|state|now|in|the|fourth|ffth|sixth|and|seventh|generat
on|this|side|of|the|sea|a|conspicu|man|was|the|rev|nathaniel|whita
ker|d|d|son|of|jonathan|whitak|who|first|settl|in|new|england|but
afterward|remov|to|new|jersey|dr|whitak|went|with|the|mohecan
indian|the|rev|sampson|occum|of|long|island|to|england|and|scot
land|in|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|they|collect|fifti|thousand|dollar|a|grand|sum|for|that
time|wherewith|dartmouth|colleg|was|found|part|for|the|educ
of|indian|he|was|a|presbyterian|a|flame|patriot|dure|the|revolut
and|a|volumin|writer|a|member|of|this|branch|ephraim|seward
whitak|of|ohio|has|spent|year|and|quit|a|larg|sum|of|money|in|collect
ing|genealog|of|the|name|in|it|mani|form|all|over|this|countri|and
england|with|the|hope|that|he|or|some|one|can|in|the|futur|complet|the
laudabl|undertak|and|publish|the|same
refer|to|the|whitak|and|their|genealog|are|found|in|a|number
of|american|book|the|ramif|are|seem|endless|onli|a
limit|investig|indic|connect|with|some|of|the|oldest|and|most
import|famili|in|the|unit|state|as|a|race|note|as|patriot|serv
wherev|found|in|all|the|period|of|conflict|here
the|ancestor|of|most|if|not|all|the|whitak|whose|home|have|long
been|in|the|southern|part|of|new|jersey|as|also|of|veri|mani|in|other|part
of|the|unit|state|is|richard|whitak|of|the|citi|of|london|england
there|is|a|tradit|that|he|first|came|to|this|countri|at|the|time|of|the|plagu
in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-five|or|in|i|ob|after|the|great|fire|and|then|return|to|england|a
richard|whittak|bought|one hundred and thirty-five|acr|of|land|in|jame|citti|counti|virginia
in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-six|one|hundr|and|fiftyeight|acr|in|middlesex|counti|of|the|same
state|in|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-seven|and|a|richard|whitak|was|in|warwick|counti|virginia|in
the|seventeenth|centurv|whose|descend|are|now|numer|around|en
field|north|carolina|but|no|one|has|yet|been|abl|to|prove|that|these
richard|repres|one|man|and|is|ident|with|the|richard|who|land|in
salem|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five
for|among|those|who|came|with|john|fenwick|to|est|new|jersey|was
richard|whitak|fter|a|custom|of|that|age|the|ship|was|name|from
an|anim|and|was|call|the|griftin|it|is|said|to|have|anchor|opposit
elsinborough|point|septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|richard|whitak|brought|with
him|a|power|of|attorney|from|william|hancock|execut|juli|six|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-five|and
accord|to|the|famili|report|that|was|the|day|previous|to|the|departur|of
the|ship|in|this|paper|the|name|is|spell|whittak|the|power|of|attor
nev|and|the|black|morocco|book|now|visibl|eaten|by|the|tooth|of|time|are
still|in|the|possess|of|the|famili|and|high|prize
3o6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
richard|hitak|was|made|one|of|fenwick|s|council|of|proprietor|to
govern|west|new|jersey|hold|the|offic|from|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-six|to|one thousand, seven hundred and two|when|the
coloni|govern|was|form|salem|was|his|resid|until|about|one thousand, six hundred and ninety
januari|seventeen|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-nine|at|salem|in|the|old|log|meetinghous|of|the|friend|on
the|nicholson|lot|now|the|cemeteri|he|marri|elizabeth|adkin|daughter
of|georg|provo|of|monmouth|precinct|the|will|of|georg|provo
date|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight|mention|elizabeth|the|wife|of|richard|and|elizabeth|daugh
ter|of|richard|whitak
in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety|richard|whitak|and|his|wife|move|to|the|south|cohans|pre
cinct|and|settl|on|the|one|thousand|acr|of|land|which|had|been|set|ofif|to
him|near|new|england|town|now|fairton|he|built|a|substanti|brick
dwell|which|descend|from|father|to|son|for|more|than|one|hundr
year|and|part|of|the|land|remain|in|the|famili|for|a|still|longer|period
the|hous|was|taken|down|about|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|and|henri|buck|kept|a|store
in|the|vicin|for|general|merchandis|suppos|to|have|been|the|onli|one
east|of|the|cohansey|river|the|site|of|the|present|thrive|citi|of|bridgeton
was|then|a|wilder|they|own|a|larg|sloop|trade|with|new|york
and|boston|one|of|richard|whitak|s|descend|has|the|storebook
it|give|the|name|of|mani|of|the|earli|inhabit|of|what|is|now|cumber
land|counti|the|first|entri|is|date|octob|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and four|and|on|the|page|be
fore|is|written|we|sail|from|boston|septemb|isth|one thousand, seven hundred and four|both
men|were|promin|in|fairfield|and|transact|a|larg|amount|of|public
busi|richard|whitak|s|name|frequent|appear|in|the|court|minut
to|be|seen|in|the|salem|clerk|s|offic|begin|with|one thousand, seven hundred and six|after|one thousand, seven hundred and nine|his
name|is|miss|it|has|been|thought|that|he|die|dure|the|next|year
age|about|sixtysix|year|but|the|date|is|uncertain|the|earli|record|are
suppos|to|have|pass|into|the|hand|of|some|branch|of|the|famili|who
may|have|remov|from|the|state|and|with|whom|communic|was|lost
as|there|were|sever|children|two|son|were|name|richard|and|nathan
iel|a|daughter|marri|an|alexand|one|of|a|larg|famili|of|that|name|in
fairfield|in|one thousand, seven hundred and four|and|a|granddaught|margaret|whitak|marri|john
jessup|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-four|richard|was|a|favorit|name|accord|to|the|record|in
trenton|the|will|probat|and|the|letter|of|administr|grant|have
not|satisfactorili|explain|the|begin|of|the|famili|here|it|is|known
that|richard|sr|sign|his|name|whittak|whitak|and|whitacar|it
is|probabl|that|in|his|day|everi|englishman|who|wrote|his|own|name|spell
it|in|half|a|dozen|diiter|way|the|late|alfr|vail|of|new|jersey|found
his|famili|name|in|various|record|and|document|on|this|side|of|the|ocean
written|with|more|than|twenti|variat|whitak|is|now|the|general
accept|form
congressiox|district|of|aff|jersey|three hundred and seven
he|and|his|wife|elizaliet|were|memler|of|the|societi|of|friend|but
the|famili|becam|interest|in|the|presbyterian|church|at|new|fairfield
which|was|organ|about|the|time|of|his|remov|to|the|place|in|an|entri
uf|the|old|storebook|under|the|date|of|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and four|he|is|charg
with|a|catech|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-five|the|dwell|of|the|minist|rev|daniel|elmer
was|burn|and|as|the|record|of|the|presl|yterian|church|were|m|it|they
perish|also|thus|are|irretriev|lost|mani|item|of|famili|as|well|as|of
church|histori
nathaniel|whitak|or|car|a|son|of|richard|sr|was|marri|to|lari
dixon|novemb|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-nine|their|children|were|ambros|lemuel|and
lewi|a|grandson|of|the|latter|john|whitak|was|one|of|the|framer|of
the|constittit|of|illinoi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|nathaniel|whitak|s|second|wife|was
ruth|buck|the|marriag|septemb|thirteen|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|their|children|were|sarah
hannah|daniel|and|ruth|hannah|marri|ephraim|foster|and|was|the
mother|of|ten|children|one|of|whom|esther|marri|the|rev|ethan
osborn|of|fairfield|be|his|second|wife|one|child|robert|also|a|presbi
terian|minist|the|rev|isaac|foster|pastor|of|the|pittsgrov|presbi
terian|church|from|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|to|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|belong|to|this|famili
ambros|the|son|of|nathaniel|and|imari|dixon|whitak|or|car|was
born|decemb|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty|he|marri|freelov|stratton|januari|ib|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-five
their|children|were|freelov|mari|nathaniel|abigail|and|catharin
freelov|marri|butler|thompson|and|one|of|her|grandson|name
thoma|sylver|becam|note|as|an|inventor|mari|marri|jedediah
ogden|an|elder|in|the|fairfield|church|the|eldest|of|her|five|children
isaac|ambros|becam|a|presbyterian|minist|labor|in|ohio|and|on|the
verg|of|indiana|for|mani|year|nathaniel|the|third|child|of|ambros|and
mari|dixon|whitak|marri|his|cousin|lydia|whitak|a|daughter|of
lewi|two|of|their|grandson|children|of|joel|were|missionari|dan
iel|ahitak|in|burmah|and|ethan|osborn|hitak|fell|at|the|front
preach|the|gospel|at|yankton|dakota|anoth|grandson|one|of|the
ten|chikfren|of|reuel|and|sarah|westcott|hitak|is|the|rev|epher
whitak|d|d|of|southold|long|island|he|was|the|pastor|of|the|pres
byterian|church|there|for|over|forti|year|his|onli|charg|he|has|been|a
writer|of|much|reput|both|in|prose|and|vers|and|has|been|note|for|his
histor|research|his|address|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|at|the|bicentenni|celebr
of|the|old|stone|church|of|fairfield|now|call|fairton|which|has|been|pub
lish|and|extens|circul|will|keep|his|memori|green|in|the|home|of
his|youth|and|in|the|everwiden|circl|from|it|his|eightieth|birthday
was|appropri|commemor|march|2j|one thousand, nine hundred|his|son|the|rev|wil
liam|f|whitak|d|d|was|the|first|pastor|of|the|st|cloud|presbyterian
3o8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
cliurc|at|south|orang|new|jersey|and|lie|is|now|the|iastor|of|the|first
presbyterian|church|of|albani|new|york
the|second|wife|of|ambros|whitak|was|ruth|harri|they|were
marri|decemb|lo|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-six|their|children|were|david|hannah|and
lewi|hannah|marri|the|rev|buckley|carll|one|of|the|pastor|of|the
pittsgrov|presbyterian|church|afterward|of|rahway|new|jersey|he|is
buri|in|the|old|pittsgrov|cemeteri|he|was|one|of|the|origin|member
of|the|west|jersey|presbyteri|ambros|whitak|marri|his|third|wife
rachel|leak|a|daughter|of|recompens|leak|ist|octob|five|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two
their|children|were|recompens|oliv|freelov|isaac|and|sarah|leak
ambros|whitak|or|car|die|novemb|five|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|rachel|leak|whita
ker|or|car|die|januari|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|in|her|eightieth|year|both|are|buri
in|the|same|grave|in|the|old|presbyterian|cemeteri|at|daretown|pittsgrov
isaac|the|fourth|child|of|ambros|and|rachel|leak|whitak|was|born
januari|eleven|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|after|a|preparatori|educ|in|pittsgrov|he|was|sent
to|the|classic|academi|at|woodburi|new|jersey|board|at|a|privat
hous|this|institut|date|from|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|and|the|rev|andrew|hunter|jr
was|the|first|teacher|it|maintain|a|high|rank|as|a|place|of|learn|for|a
number|of|year|and|perhap|few|school|of|that|period|could|point|to|so
mani|who|becam|distinguish|in|their|matur|year|among|the|well
known|men|enrol|as|it|pupil|in|their|youth|were|dr|jame|rush|com
modor|benjamin|cooper|commodor|stephen|decatur|and|captain|jame
lawrenc|of|the|chesapeak|whose|die|entreati|do|not|give|up|the
ship|has|pass|into|a|proverb|the|latter|was|the|especi|friend|of|isaac
whitak|to|him|jame|lawrenc|told|his|dream|and|his|expect
of|get|a|midshipman|s|commiss|his|mind|was|ever|on|the|life|in|the
great|water|and|his|leisur|was|devot|to|draw|ship|he|color|a
pictur|of|the|ship|name|the|light|hors|of|philadelphia|and|present
it|to|isaac|whitak|as|a|token|of|his|regard|and|it|is|in|the|possess|of
one|of|his|daughter|mrs|carolin|w|van|meter|of|salem|new|jersey
march|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|isaac|whitak|was|marri|to|ann|fithian|a|daughter
of|jonathan|fithian|3d|and|mari|harri|jonathan|fithian|ist|was|one
of|the|earliest|settler|about|fairfield|new|jersey|at|the|begin|of|the
eighteenth|centuri|come|from|long|island|the|fithian|have|been|dis
tinguish|for|their|intellig|and|for|the|beauti|of|some|of|the|women|of
the|famili|the|earlier|year|of|their|marri|life|were|spent|by|isaac|and
ann|fithian|whitak|in|deerfield|new|jersey|chiefli|upon|the|estat
inherit|by|mrs|whitak|from|her|father|who|was|one|of|the|largest|land
owner|in|cumberland|counti|besid|look|after|the|farm|of|over|five
hundr|acr|isaac|whitak|was|a|civil|magistr|for|a|great|mani|year
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and nine
one|of|the|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|of|cumberland|counti|and|a
major|of|the|militia|he|was|an|ardent|whig|in|polit|and|an|offici|m|a
alason|organ|read|was|one|of|his|greatest|pleasur|and|his
well|inform|mind|gift|of|humor|genial|and|courteous|manner|made|him
interest|social|his|facial|resembl|to|the|rev|archibald|alexan
der|d|d|was|so|strike|as|to|suggest|a|possibl|consanguin|twelv
children|came|to|their|home|isaac|ann|mari|sarah|carolin|oliv
enoch|charl|eliza|jame|lydia|and|lewi|eliza|die|in|her|infanc
charl|in|his|youth|the|other|came|to|matur|marri|and|had|fami
lie|five|made|their|home|in|the|west|where|the|major|of|the|descend
ant|of|isaac|whitak|and|his|wife|can|now|be|found|onli|two|of|then
daughter|are|live|at|the|present|time|one thousand, nine hundred|carolin|who|marri
edward|van|meter|of|salem|see|an|dieter|ancestr|note|and|lydia
who|marri|jonathan|d|ayr|of|bridgeton|a|nephew|of|governor|seeley
of|the|four|children|of|the|latter|two|surviv|carolin|cmrs|elmer|mu1
ford|and|florenc
in|their|later|year|isaac|whitak|and|his|wife|move|to|bridgeton
where|they|both|depart|this|life|the|latter|may|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|in|her|sixtythird
year|the|former|februari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|in|his|seventyeighth|year|both|are
iniri|in|the|presbyterian|cemeteri|at|deertield|new|jersey
john|h|b|cooper
john|h|b|cooper|who|is|one|of|the|success|agriculturist|of|salem
counti|new|jersey|and|a|resid|of|elmer|was|born|in|kent|counti|dela
ware|decemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|this|cooper|famili|date|the|settlement|of|it
first|american|ancestor|in|delawar|away|back|to|an|earli|time|when|the
cooper|came|from|england|our|subject|s|father|was|born|at|about|the
same|place|he|was|as|was|also|his|father|whose|name|was|ezekiel|our|sub
ject|s|father|s|name|be|robert|b|cooper|ezekiel|an|uncl|of|our|sub
ject|s|father|was|among|the|earliest|methodist|preacher|in|america|rob
ert|b|was|by|trade|a|tanner|and|currier|a|trade|not|so|well|known|now|as
it|was|fifti|year|ago|he|now|resid|with|our|subject|age|seventysix
year|he|follow|his|trade|mani|year|and|also|farm|to|a|consider
extent|he|settl|in|this|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|too|belong|to|the|meth
odist|church|and|was|for|mani|year|a|classlead|and|local|preacher|his
wife|s|maiden|name|was|mari|hawkin|and|she|was|a|daughter|of|john
hawkin|who|was|among|the|first|to|effect|a|settlement|in|delawar|she
pass|from|the|scene|of|this|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one
3io|biogrifh|histori|of|the|first
our|subject|the|onli|one|of|their|three|children|now|live|attend|the
common|school|to|some|extent|and|then|began|farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|pur
chase|the|seventyfiveacr|farm|on|which|he|now|live|he|oper|also|a
profit|dairi|with|a|fine|herd|of|jersey|polit|he|is|a|believ|in
the|chief|principl|of|the|democrat|parti|he|was|the|collector|for|his
township|in|one hundred and eighty-nine thousand, four hundred and fifty-six|he|belong|to|the|order|of|red|men|and|in|religi
matter|our|subject|cling|to|the|methodist|faith
septemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|mr|cooper|was|marri|to|mari|miller|the|daughter
of|joseph|iiller|of|elmer|by|this|marriag|the|home|circl|was|bless
with|six|children|mrs|ralph|hitchner|resid|near|elmer|mari|ger
trude|robert|chrissi|and|joseph|at|home|in|mingl|with|the|good
peopl|of|this|counti|one|will|seldom|find|one|more|agreeabl|and|truer|to
his|counti|to|his|town|antl|to|his|famiu|than|ir|cooper|it|is|such|men
as|this|togeth|with|their|interest|famili|that|make|life|worth|the|liv
ing|and|the|nation|worth|preserv|at|ani|cost
swaix|shaw|reee
a|special|place|of|honor|should|be|accord|the|patriot|who|fought|and
endur|untold|hardship|for|his|countri|as|did|the|subject|of|this|review
he|has|been|a|lifelong|resid|of|cape|may|counti|his|birth|have|oc
cur|in|lower|township|juli|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|his|parent|were|joshua|h|and
ellen|woolson|reev|his|father|have|die|when|our|subject|v|as|a
small|boy|the|latter|went|to|live|in|the|home|of|the|rev|mose|william
son|of|cold|spring|and|subsequ|resid|with|dr|virgil|marcci|he
was|aftord|common|educ|advantag|and|earli|master|the|various
detail|of|agricultur|to|which|occup|he|has|given|his|princij|atten
tion
by|industr|and|enterpris|ir|reev|had|accunnd|a|compet
and|had|made|a|fair|start|in|life|be|the|owner|of|a|good|farm|when|the
cloud|of|the|civil|war|began|to|gather|dark|mien|he|had|becom|con
vinc|that|his|countri|was|inde|in|danger|be|left|his|young|wife|and
pleasant|home|and|hasten|to|ofter|his|servic|to|the|union|enlist|as
a|privat|in|compani|a|seventh|regiment|of|xew|jersey|volunt|on
the|23d|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|was|muster|in|with|forti|of|his|friend|and
neighbor|from|lower|township|at|trenton|and|was|assign|for|duti
in|the|armi|of|the|potomac|on|the|ist|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|was|pro
mote|to|the|rank|of|corpor|he|particip|in|sever|of|the|most|i|am
portant|campaign|and|battl|of|the|war|among|them|be|the|sieg|of
f
a
coygressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and eleven
yorktown|williamsburg|richmond|the|seven|day|battl|of|the|wilder
ness|malvern|hill|bristow|station|gainesvill|manassa|chantilli|fred
ericksburg|chancellorsvill|gettysburg|kelli|s|ford|and|mine|run|at
petersburg|irginia|he|was|wound|in|the|heel|iji|a|fragment|of|she|will|and
was|in|the|hospit|from|june|until|august|then|return|to|his|regiment
at|the|battl|of|petersburg|he|was|wound|in|the|left|hip|by|a|mini|ball
which|pass|through|his|canteen|and|haversack|and|in|the|first|day|s|fight
at|gettysburg|was|wound|by|a|piec|of|she|will|he|was|faith|to|everi|trust
repos|in|him|and|won|the|commend|of|his|superior|offic|for|his
reliabl|cheer|discharg|of|duti|and|braveri|under|all|circumst
after|he|had|been|honor|discharg|from|the|union|armi|mr
reev|return|home|and|resum|his|former|occup|the|small|farm
which|he|had|purchas|in|the|vicin|of|cape|may|point|befor|he|went|into
the|armv|is|the|same|one|on|which|he|has|resid|ever|sinc|it|is|especi
suit|for|market|garden|and|he|reap|a|comfort|incom|from|this
sourc|each|year
the|old|comrad|of|the|civil|war|are|especi|dear|to|mr|reev|and
he|take|great|interest|in|the|grand|armi|of|the|republ|he|has|occu
pie|all|of|the|offic|save|that|of|command|in|m|e|croy|post|no|forty
of|cape|may|citi|polit|he|is|an|ardent|republican|and|held|the
offic|of|coron|for|one|term|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|has|been|an|elder|and|deacon
in|the|presbvterian|church|and|from|his|youth|has|been|an|activ|worker|in
this|denomin
the|marriag|of|mr|reev|and|miss|sylvenia|church|was|celebr
novemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|of|their|six|children|three|die|in|infanc|name
charl|wesley|joseph|hooker|and|edward|hewitt|georg|who|marri
sarah|strong|is|engag|in|busi|as|a|gold|beater|at|cape|may|and|el
mer|the|youngest|surviv|son|is|occupi|in|the|same|call|edward
p|the|second|son|is|the|foreman|of|the|star|print|offic|at|cape|may
citv|he|is|marri|and|has|one|child|name|nelson
j|hampton|leonard
for|more|than|two|hundr|and|fifti|year|the|leonard|famili|of|which
our|subject|is|a|repres|has|been|found|in|america|the|origin
ancestor|were|of|english|birth|and|three|brother|of|the|name|came|from
england|to|the|new|world|in|the|mayflow|the|hous|then|built|by
them|was|still|stand|a|few|ear|ago|at|an|earli|da|repres|of
the|name|came|to|new|tersev|and|isaac|leonard|the|greatgrandfath|was
3i
biograph|histori|of|the|first
ijorii|near|trenton|in|this|state|he|afterward|remov|to|washington
pennsylvania|prior|to|the|war|of|the|revokit|and|there|abner|leonard
the|grandfath|was|born|aaron|l|leonard|the|father|was|also|a|nativ
of|washington|pennsylvania|and|in|that|state|acquir|his|educ|be
graduat|at|washington|colleg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|at|the|allegheni|seminari|in
pittsburg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|he|won|the|highest|honor|of|the|class|and|was|the|vale
dictorian|ordain|as|a|minist|of|the|presbyterian|church|he|went|to
iowa|and|was|the|first|instal|preacher|of|that|denomin|in|the|hawk
eye|state|for|five|year|he|remain|in|kossuth|and|continu|his|resi
denc|in|iowa|where|he|labor|as|a|missionari|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|in|that|year|he
came|to|new|jersey|and|was|activ|identifi|with|the|work|of|the|ministri
here|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|although|eightyseven|year|of
age|his|mental|faculti|are|still|undim|he|was|a|man|of|strong|intel
lectual|and|was|a|firm|and|eloqu|speaker|whose|logic|convinc|the
mind|of|mani|of|his|hearer|he|was|particular|success|in|revivalist
work|and|his|servic|were|in|much|demand|in|that|line|of|religi|teach
the|becaus|of|abolit|also|found|in|him|a|most|earnest|and|stanch|advoc
and|his|influenc|in|it|behalf|was|most|effect|he|is|an|excel|greek
and|latin|scholar|and|at|one|time|was|employ|as|a|teacher|of|hebrew|and
greek|in|an|institut|in|quinci|illinoi|he|marri|carolin|r|chamber
lain|and|for|fiftyseven|year|they|travel|life|s|journey|togeth|share
with|each|other|the|joy|and|sorrow|the|advers|and|prosper|of|life
on|the|two|one|st|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|howev|the|wife|and|mother|was|call|to|the
home|beyond|in|the|famili|were|born|sarah|the|widow|of|john
h|bradley|of|philadelphia|elizabeth|h|j|hampton|abner|i|who|is|liv
ing|in|new|york|and|jame|l|who|resid|in|lona|the|influenc|which
aaron|leonard|has|exert|has|ever|been|most|mark|he|has|done|much
to|uplift|human|and|has|ever|been|found|the|champion|of|all|measur
which|tend|to|make|men|better|and|live|happier
j|hampton|leonard|was|born|in|kossuth|iowa|april|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|s|d
began|his|educ|in|the|common|school|at|that|place|he|also|pursu
his|studi|in|danvill|iowa|in|the|congreg|seminari|of|chicago
and|in|the|union|theolog|seminari|of|new|york|but|i|will|health|forc
him|to|put|asid|his|textbook|and|he|return|to|the|farm|where|he|has
sinc|remain|he|is|now|engag|in|the|nurseri|busi|and|is|a|recog
nize|leader|in|his|line|the|plant|and|tree|which|he|send|out|are|of|ex
cellent|grade|and|this|togeth|with|his|reliabl|and|honesti|has|secur
to|him|a|liber|patronag|he|is|the|vicepresid|of|the|american|dahlia
societi|of|new|jersey|in|church|work|he|is|veri|activ|and|was|the|town
ship|secretari|of|the|sundayschool|associ|he|has|been|the|superin
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and thirteen
tendent|of|the|sundayschool|for|a|number|of|year|and|has|labor|most
effect|to|advanc|the|becaus|of|the|church|in|which|his|father|was|pastor
a|gentleman|of|sterl|worth|of|nobl|of|charact|and|upright|life|he
oain|the|respect|of|all|with|whom|he|came|in|contact
charl|cassaday
charl|cassaday|is|one|of|the|progress|farmer|who|have|contribut
so|much|to|the|prosper|of|southern|new|jersey|and|resid|in|upper|pitt
grove|township|salem|counti|this|state|within|a|short|distanc|of|the|spot
that|gave|him|birth|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|he|was|a|son|of|charl|and|mari
ayer|cassaday|and|a|grandson|of|jame|cassaday|charl|cassaday|was
a|farmer|of|this|region|who|marri|mari|a|daughter|of|robert|ayer|and
lie|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|leav|four|children|two|of|whom|are|now|live|mari|a
who|is|marri|and|charl|our|subject
charl|cassaday|receiv|a|commonschool|educ|attend|dis
trict|school|dure|the|winter|and|assist|in|the|farm|duti|dure|the
summer|he|show|a|natur|abil|for|agricultur|life|from|his|youth
and|at|the|age|of|seventeen|began|to|farm|for|himself|and|was|one|of|the
most|success|farmer|of|the|communiti|use|modem|idea|to|carri|on
his|work|and|meet|with|astonish|result|almost|unheard|of|by|those
who|jog|along|in|the|old|rut|he|purchas|land|from|time|to|time
until|he|now|has|four|farm|all|in|excel|condit|lie|in|salem|and
gloucest|counti|his|last|purchas|be|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|when|he
bought|of|the|jame|s|abbott|estat|fiftyon|acr|where|he|has|sinc
carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|his|land|aggreg|two|hundr|and
nineti|acr|and|like|his|father|he|is|consid|a|model|farmer|his|judg
ment|concern|land|crop|etc|be|regard|as|flawless|his|success
is|attribut|to|his|industri|and|persever|and|the|indomit|will|that
carri|him|over|obstacl|that|would|have|discourag|weaker|men|he
has|built|up|a|higher|standard|for|the|farmer|and|his|exampl|has|prove|a
stimul|and|incent|to|them|to|accomplish|greater|result|and|emul
his|method
on|the|22d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|was|celebr|the|nuptial|of|lr|cassa
day|and|miss|rebecca|ecrett|a|daughter|of|smith|ecrett|of|this|locahti
four|children|were|bom|to|them|name|joseph|of|pine|tavern|smith
who|farm|the|old|homestead|mari|who|live|at|home|and|rebecca|e
the|wife|of|joseph|bill|and|live|near|here|mr|cassaday|was|rear|in
the|atmospher|of|a|christian|home|and|imbib|those|principl|which|if
three hundred and fourteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
practic|lead|to|nojil|manhood|and|womanhood|he|unit|with|the
methodist|episcop|church|at|hardingill|gloucest|counti|this|state
about|thirtynin|year|ago|and|has|been|a|faith|worker|in|the|organiza
tion|ever|sinc|have|been|steward|truste|classlead|and|exhort|as|the
occas|demand|and|remain|true|to|the|teach|receiv|in|the|old
schoolhous|church|of|which|his|father|was|a|member|mr|cassaday|is|a
man|of|sterl|worth|and|stand|high|in|the|esteem|of|his|fellow|men
ira|s|champion
the|atlant|coast|of|new|jersey|has|becom|a|summer|resort|to|which
annual|mani|hundr|of|peopl|go|find|there|rest|and|recreat|from
the|care|and|respons|of|busi|and|social|life|to|attend|to|the
need|of|these|visitor|mani|enterpris|have|been|establish|and|of|the
control|of|one|of|which|mr|champion|lia|charg|his|effort|have|larg
contribut|to|the|welfar|and|upbuild|of|ocean|citi|and|his|labor|have
not|onli|brought|him|individu|support|but|have|been|a|factor|in|the|pros
periti|which|has|attend|the|citi|in|which|he|make|his|home
number|among|the|nati|son|of|new|jersey|mr|champion|was|born
in|pleasantvill|atlant|counti|juli|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|is|a|son|of|somer|t
and|anna|si|lake|champion|his|grandfath|elmer|champion|resid
at|absecom|atlant|counti|and|was|a|sea|cajitain|his|children|were
elmer|enoch|daniel|carolin|jane|ruhannah|and|anna|the|father
of|our|subject|obtain|a|commonschool|educ|and|has|spent|his|entir
life|in|new|jersey|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|has|been|interest|in|seashor|real|estat
carri|on|busi|at|atlant|highland|he|was|the|superintend|and
the|secretari|of|the|atlant|highland|associ|for|about|eight|year
and|he|own|extens|realest|interest|there|he|receiv|the|first|deed
for|land|sold|by|the|ocean|citi|associ|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|has|been
an|import|factor|in|the|advanc|of|the|beauti|town|which|overlook
the|atlant
in|his|polit|view|he|is|a|strong|republican|and|his|opinion|carri
weight|in|the|council|of|his|parti|he|has|labor|earnest|to|insur|it
success|and|for|three|year|he|serv|as|the|sergeant|at|arm|in|the|new
jersej|senat|one|of|the|most|promin|and|valu|member|of|the|order
of|knight|of|pythia|he|is|now|occupi|the|posit|of|grand|chancellor
and|is|also|a|member|of|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|and|the|i|am
prove|order|of|red|men|dure|the|civil|war|he|manifest|his|loyalti
to|the|union|becaus|bv|offer|his|servic|to|the|sfovern|and|as|a
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and fifteen
memljer|of|compani|b|twentyfifth|new|jersey|infantri|he|fohow|the
star|and|stripe|upon|southern|battlefield|the|friendship|which|he
form|in|those|day|are|still|continu|through|the|medium|of|the|grand
armi|post|his|religi|belief|is|in|harmoni|with|the|doctrin|of|the
methodist|episcop|church|of|which|he|is|account|a|repres|mem
ber|he|has|held|all|of|the|church|ofc|and|has|effici|serv|as|the
superintend|of|the|sundayschool|mr|champion|marri|miss|anna
m|lake|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|eight|children|frank|e|who
marri|flora|e|risley|and|has|four|children|benjamin|jess|milton|and
alfreda|is|now|live|a|retir|life|in|trenton|new|jersey|ira|s|is|the
second|of|the|famili|ezra|r|who|marri|clara|hain|and|has|one|son
stanley|is|proprietor|of|the|portland|hotel|at|atlant|hill|new|jer
sey|barton|f|resid|at|his|parent|home|jess|die|at|the|age|of|fourteen
year|and|the|other|three|children|die|in|infanc|the|mother|of|these
children|was|call|to|her|final|rest|june|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight
ira|s|champion|is|indebt|to|the|publicschool|system|of|atlant
counti|for|the|earli|educ|privileg|which|he|receiv|later|he|at
tend|pennington|seminari|and|on|the|4th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|was|graduat
in|eastman|s|busi|colleg|thus|well|equip|for|the|respons
duti|of|life|he|enter|upon|an|acti|commerci|career|in|ocean|citi|as
the|proprietor|of|a|meat|market|and|groceri|he|afterward|spent|two|year
as|a|bookkeen|for|the|firm|of|strowbridg|clother|of|philadelphia|and
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|came|to|ocean|citi|where|he|has|sinc|been|engag|in|the|manu
factur|of|ice|cream|for|the|seashor|trade|he|has|prettili|appoint|par
lor|and|not|onli|sell|to|the|local|trade|but|doe|an|extens|wholesal
busi|as|well|ship|to|various|point|in|cape|may|counti|he|is
also|success|engag|in|busi|as|a|milk|dealer|handl|eighti|thou
sand|quart|of|milk|annual|he|built|his|resid|and|place|of|busi|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|a|substanti|structur|thirtyf|by|seventi|feet|in|addit|to|his
other|interest|he|is|the|manag|of|the|bell|telephon|compani|at|ocean
citi|and|the|oper|of|the|exchang|which|is|locat|in|his|offic
on|the|15th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|imr|cham
pion|and|miss|florenc|m|cronin|a|daughter|of|edmund|d|cronin|of
philadelphia|they|now|have|four|children|anna|m|violet|m|beulah
g|and|ira|barton|their|youngest|child|florenc|e|die|in|infanc|mr
and|mrs|champion|hold|membership|in|the|methodist|episcop|church
in|which|he|has|serv|as|a|truste|he|is|connect|with|various|fratern
organ|belong|to|iota|council|j|o|a|m|the|improv|order
of|red|men|and|the|ancient|order|of|unit|orkmen|he|is|also|a|repr
sentat|to|ocean|citi|lodg|no|sixty-six|k|of|p|the|xarious|enterpris
3i6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
w|hich|tend|to|benetit|the|citi|recei|his|support|and|his|activ|cooper
has|been|a|much|prize|factor|in|tlie|advanc|of|various|movement|of
the|pubhc|good|he|is|an|activ|member|of|the|ocean|citi|fire|depart
and|in|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and fifty-six|he|serv|as|a|member|of|tlie|cit|council|later|he|fill|the
posit|of|citi|clerk|and|at|one|time|was|a|repres|to|the|general
assembl|the|republican|parti|receiv|his|allegi|and|he|frequent
attend|it|convent|where|his|counsel|carri|weight|for|his|opinion
are|jractic|and|contain|the|element|of|success|his|prosper|in|busi
is|due|to|his|close|applic|to|the|vari|interest|in|which|he|is|engag
his|unassail|reput|and|his|honor|deal|have|gain|him|the
respect|and|good|will|of|all|who|know|him
captain|augustus|sooy
the|import|of|the|govern|lifesav|servic|can|not|be|over
estim|and|year|by|year|it|is|be|systemat|more|perfect|cap
tain|augustus|sooy|who|is|the|keeper|of|the|cold|spring|station|at|cape
may|citi|is|one|of|the|most|trust|and|thorough|efiici|employ|in|this
depart|of|our|nation|s|work|and|a|histori|of|his|life|will|prove|of|inter
est|to|his|host|of|friend
his|patern|grandfath|augustus|sooy|was|born|at|port|republ
new|jersey|was|a|sailor|in|earli|manhood|and|dure|the|war|of|the|revolu
tion|own|a|ship|which|was|taken|as|a|prize|by|the|british|near|egg|island
delawar|bay|his|last|year|were|devot|to|the|till|of|the|soil|and|no|one
in|his|communiti|was|more|genuin|esteem|he|was|a|faith|member
of|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|die|as|he|bad|live|strong|in|the
the|faith|he|live|to|reach|his|eightieth|year|and|his|wife|sarah|higbe
sooy|was|about|eightytwo|year|old|at|the|time|of|her|demis|of|their
children|samuel|and|jess|were|lost|at|sea|when|young|men|and|the|latter
left|a|widow|and|two|daughter|elizabeth|and|sarah|joseph|chalkley|and
josiah|higbe|were|the|third|and|fourth|children|of|augustus|sooy|nlaria
the|eldest|daughter|marri|jame|clark|a|farmer|of|port|republ|and
their|son|captain|thoma|clark|was|drown|at|sea|anoth|son|captain
nathaniel|d|clark|was|lost|ofi|the|coast|of|massachusett|and|captain
harri|also|follow|the|sea|captain|jess|clark|is|live|retir|the
daughter|of|this|famili|were|sarah|who|marri|joseph|turner|louisa
wife|of|e|addam|and|abbigil|elizabeth|the|second|daughter|of|augustus
and|sarah|higbe|sooy|marri|john|turner|a|farmer|near|higbeetown
and|their|son|peter|and|samuel|are|farmer|while|richard|who|is|agent
coxgressiox|district|of|xejf|jersey|three hundred and seventeen
for|the|henri|diston|estat|of|philadelphia|is|a|bank|director|and|resid
in|atlant|citi|mari|is|the|widow|of|josiah|johnson|while|anni|is|the
wife|of|joseph|barstow|a|lead|merchant|of|atlant|citi|new|jersey
rachel|becam|the|wife|of|eli|bowen|sinc|deceas|but|then|live|at
smithvill|new|jersey|and|their|children|were|mari|jane|shaw|sooy|and
captain|john
josiah|h|sooy|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|at|port|republ|and
spent|his|entir|life|there|follow|the|sea|for|sever|year|as|captain|of
a|vessel|and|later|carri|on|a|farm|he|was|a|true|patriot|a|stanch|re
publican|and|for|mani|year|he|held|one|local|posit|or|anoth|with
credit|to|himself|and|friend|a|devot|member|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|he|held|sever|of|it|ofc|of|trust|and|respons|and|be
an|ardent|believ|in|temper|he|identifi|himself|with|the|organ
known|as|the|son|of|temper|he|was|a|success|busi|man|and
at|one|time|was|connect|with|a|build|and|loan|associ|he|mar
rie|mari|smith|and|their|union|was|bless|with|four|children|rachel
becam|the|wife|of|william|johnson|a|farmer|of|port|republ|and|they
had|seven|children|mari|bell|the|eldest|marri|john|english|rosa|is
the|wife|of|roland|randolph|of|tuckerton|new|jersey|and|has|three|chil
dren|minni|ray|georg|elsworth|and|flora|alic|is|the|wife|of|captain
jame|abbott|of|port|townsend|and|the|mother|of|twin|son|richter
and|ransford|ellsworth|the|eldest|son|of|rachel|johnson|is|marri|and|his
onli|child|die|when|young|he|is|a|member|of|the|wholesal|groceri
firm|of|johnson|brother|of|san|francisco|augustus|s|who|is|a|member|of
the|firm|of|johnson|brother|marri|carolin|lindeluf|and|they|had|one
child|lloyd|clara|and|arthur|are|at|home|the|captain|is|the|second
child|of|josiah|and|mari|sooy|sarah|j|the|third|child|of|josiah|and|mari
sooy|marri|captain|eli|higbe|smith|of|philadelphia|and|their|onli|son
william|is|a|mate|on|a|seago|vessel|samuel|not|marri|a|part|of|the
time|is|the|mate|and|part|of|the|time|master|on|a|ship|the|father|of|our
subject|depart|this|life|on|the|2gth|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|when|in|his|eighti
third|year
the|birth|of|captain|augustus|sooy|occur|at|port|republ|au
gust|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|he|obtain|what|educ|he|could|befor|he|was|twelv
year|of|age|and|then|went|on|board|a|twomast|schooner|in|a|minor
posit|gradual|work|his|way|upward|until|he|becam|the|first|mate
on|a|coast|vessel|after|serv|as|such|for|six|year|he|becam|the
master|of|a|ship|and|altogeth|he|sail|the|sea|for|eighteen|year|in
one|eighty-seven|one|he|join|the|lifesav|servic|the|local|depart|be|institut
that|vear|he|act|in|minor|capac|for|sever|year|prove|his|abil
3i8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|braveri|and|some|thirteen|year|ago|he|was|honor|by|lie|made
the|captain|of|the|cold|spring|station|here|he|has|command|of|seven
men|who|are|thorough|drill|heroic|and|trustworthi|and|everi|year
dure|the|great|storm|which|prevail|along|this|coast|their|courag|and
eiificiencv|is|tax|to|the|utmost|the|general|public|littl|realiz|what|a
grand|remark|work|is|in|their|hand|how|mani|thousand|of|dollar
of|marin|properti|is|annual|save|or|how|mani|precious|live|are|rescu
from|the|angri|deep|by|these|devot|men|who|have|never|been|known|to
falter|when|duti|call|them|too|much|can|not|be|said|in|their|prais|nor
too|much|credit|given|to|their|gallant|command|captain|sooy|this
station|one|of|the|most|import|on|the|new|jersey|coast|which|has|forti
two|station|is|a|fine|exampl|of|modern|idea|in|connect|with|the|save
of|live|endang|on|the|ocean|all|mechan|devic|and|applianc|to
aid|the|littl|band|of|stalwart|worker|in|this|human|task|are|to|be|found
here
augustus|sooy|s|work|has|inde|been|of|great|import|in|eighty-two
he|and|his|men|were|instrument|in|save|the|crew|of|the|schooner|known
as|the|carri|s|webb|when|off|the|cape|and|in|connect|with|robert
chamber|he|volunt|to|take|the|schooner|to|new|york|the|vessel
was|in|distress|and|start|for|the|metropoli|they|had|almost|reach
harbor|when|a|storm|drove|them|again|to|sea|and|for|fifteen|day|they|drift
in|the|gale|when|they|at|length|reach|land|they|found|they|were|twenti
mile|north|of|cape|hattera|and|the|crew|were|almost|in|despair|but|final
the|reach|charleston|south|carolina|on|anoth|occas|captain
sooy|went|to|the|rescu|of|the|vessel|clara|davidson|on|cold|spring|bar
on|the|ship|was|a|crew|of|six|men|togeth|with|three|passeng|a|ladi
and|her|two|children|but|after|gallant|work|for|mani|hour|in|the|cold
and|ice|he|and|his|helper|succeed|in|save|the|entir|number|mani
are|those|who|owe|to|him|a|debt|of|gratitud|which|can|never|l|e|repaid
man|s|most|priceless|possess|is|life|and|through|the|effort|of|captain
sooy|this|has|been|given|to|mani|who|els|would|have|found|death|in|a
waterv|grave|fearless|and|true|he|never|falter|when|duti|call|but|with
a|heroism|that|is|sublim|goe|forth|to|rescu|the|imperil|one|he|take
no|great|credit|to|himself|for|this|say|that|it|is|mere|his|duti|but|such
a|record|can|not|fail|to|awaken|the|gratitud|and|admir|of|all
the|marriag|of|captain|sooy|and|miss|fanni|smith|was|solemn
septemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|mrs|sooy|is|daughter|of|georg|and|naomi|leed
smith|and|granddaught|of|isaac|smith|whd|was|the|sheriff|of|atlant
coimti|and|whose|home|was|at|smithvill|a|place|name|in|honor|of|his
famili|he|had|nine|children|henri|mark|loui|john|thoma|georg
coxgressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|three hundred and nineteen
martha|susanna|and|pitman|georg|w|smith|was|born|and|rear|at
smithvill|and|earli|in|hfe|was|an|oysterman|and|sail|the|sea|his|last
year|were|spent|at|leed|point|where|he|die|at|the|age|of|fortytwo|he
had|sever|children|name|bodin|c|fanni|m|josiah|l|susi|c
clayton|l|and|ehvood|leed|point|was|name|in|honor|of|mrs|sooy|s
matern|grandfath|captain|clayton|leed|who|resid|there|all|of|his
lifetim|besid|be|the|owner|of|a|number|of|vessel|was|bless|with
consider|wealth|he|was|a|whig|and|republican|and|took|a|patriot
interest|in|the|triumph|of|his|parti|to|himself|and|wife|mari|were|born
captain|mark|who|was|lost|at|sea|louisa|the|wife|of|captain|nichola
endicott|naomi|josiah|who|went|to|oregon|engag|in|the|lumber|busi
ness|and|die|a|wealthi|man|mima|who|first|becam|the|wife|of|captain
alfr|higbe|the|master|of|a|seago|vessel|who|die|later|she|wed
joseph|frampus|a|teacher|and|now|is|the|wife|of|fred|chamberlain|a
farmer|of|absecon|new|jersey|she|live|in|california|and|esther|the|wife|of
josiah|bowen|who|was|engag|in|the|oyster|busi|his|home|be|at
smithvill|mr|and|mrs|sooy|had|four|children|but|their|daughter
laura|and|fanni|may|both|die|when|fourteen|month|old|and|flora
was|call|from|the|happi|famili|circl|by|the|angel|of|death|when|she|was
twenti|year|of|age|josiah|their|onli|son|alon|remain|to|cheer|their
declin|day
like|his|ancestor|captain|sooy|is|a|nobl|christian|man|his|prefer
be|for|the|methodist|episcop|church|fratern|he|belong|to|the
american|order|of|unit|workmen|and|former|was|connect|with|the
knight|of|pythia|lodg|his|has|been|a|nobl|life|one|worthi|of|emula
tion|and|to|his|son|he|will|leav|that|priceless|heritag|a|good|name
willlam|e|forcum
william|e|forcum|who|is|engag|in|the|paint|busi|at|holli
beach|ava|born|in|philadelphia|juli|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|his|parent|be|elia|and
anna|b|evan|forcum|the|name|is|of|welsh|and|english|origin|the
father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|delawar|and|afterward|resid|in|penn
sylvania|and|virginia|spend|his|last|day|in|the|latter|state|his|death
occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|at|the|age|of|forti|he|was|a|sailor|and|follow|the|sea
for|mani|year|his|widow|is|still|live|and|has|reach|the|advanc|age
of|seventyf|year|they|were|the|parent|of|hester|anna|william|e
and|elia|w
in|the|public|school|of|delawar|william|e|forcum|pursu|his|educa
three hundred and twenty
biograph|histori|of|the|first
tion|until|eleven|year|of|age|and|then|began|work|as|a|farm|hand|which
he|follow|for|some|time|subsequ|he|went|to|philadelphia|where|he
learn|the|housepaint|s|trade|and|has|sinc|devot|his|energi|to|that
pursuit|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|came|to|holli|beach|and|has|sinc|contract|in|the
line|of|his|chosen|vocat|furnish|employ|to|a|dozen|men|and|re
ceiv|from|the|public|a|liber|patronag|he|also|engag|in|rent
hous|and|is|one|of|the|industri|energet|busi|men|of|the|town
mr|forcum|is|take|a|deep|interest|in|public|afifair|and|has|been|ac
tive|concern|in|the|govern|of|the|town|he|serv|as|postmast
for|two|year|was|a|member|of|the|citi|council|for|two|year|and|is|now
for|a|second|term|hold|that|offic|he|was|collector|for|three|year|has
been|a|school|truste|and|was|the|mayor|of|the|villag|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine
and|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
on|the|5th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|mr|forcum|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|elizabeth|jane|siver|and|their|children|are|elizabeth|xnna|hester
nelli|charl|carri|rebecca|william|and|fanni|the|fourth|daughter
nelli|and|three|other|children|are|now|deceas|mr|forcum|may|well|be
term|a|selfmad|man|for|sinc|his|earli|youth|he|has|been|depend|upon
his|own|exert|and|whatev|he|has|achiev|in|life|is|due|entir|to
his|well|direct|effort
isc|swain
isaac|swain|is|a|son|of|isaac|and|mari|savag|swain|and|was|born|in
middl|township|cape|may|counti|june|four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|he|attend|the|pubhc
school|of|that|local|and|also|a|privat|school|at|cape|may|court|hous
and|when|nineteen|year|of|age|he|began|the|task|of|master|the|more
difficult|lesson|in|the|school|of|experi|he|spent|one|year|pros
pect|in|illinoi|and|then|went|to|sea|sail|as|one|of|the|crew|on|a
schooner|engag|in|the|coast|trade|for|three|year|he|was|identifi
with|seafar|life|and|dure|much|of|that|time|serv|as|mate|on|a|ves
sel|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|attract|by|the|discoveri|of|gold|in|california|he|made|his
way|to|the|pacif|slope|where|he|engag|in|mine|for|two|and|a|half
year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|he|return|to|new|jersey|and|locat|at|swainton|upon|a
farm|of|two|hundr|and|fifti|acr|sinc|that|time|he|has|carri|on|agri
cultur|pursuit|he|has|also|been|engag|in|general|merchandis|for
twenti|year|and|has|isought|and|sold|wood|and|lumber|on|an|extens
scale|for|thirtyon|year|he|dealt|in|fur|do|a|larg|busi|in|that
line|purchas|all|of|the|fur|that|were|secur|in|cape|may|and|cumber
land|counti|in|whatev|line|of|busi|he|has|direct|his|energi|he
congressiox|distmct|of|nejv|jersey|three hundred and twenty-one
has|met|with|success|for|he|possess|undaunt|determin|and|unflag
ging|energi|qualiti|which|never|fail|to|secur|the|desir|financi|re
ward
on|the|6th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|mr|swain|was|unit|in|marriag|to|imiss
emma|hand|a|daughter|of|charl|and|abigail|willett|hand|they
becam|the|parent|of|four|children|but|two|are|now|deceas|charl|p
who|die|at|the|age|of|thirtyon|year|and|luther|who|die|in|infanc
jenni|f|the|eldest|of|the|famili|marri|charl|avay|a|merchant|of
south|seavill|new|jersey|luther|m|the|youngest|of|the|famili|was
marri|march|five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|to|ida|cress|he|is|assist|his|father|in|his|busi
ness|and|is|also|extens|engag|in|the|rais|of|poultri|and|pigeon
he|serv|as|postmast|of|swainton|dure|presid|cleveland|s|admini
tration|and|is|one|of|the|repres|citizen|of|his|communiti|possess
much|music|abil|he|is|a|member|of|the|cape|may|band|and|has|at|dif
ferent|time|play|upon|all|the|various|instrument|in|the|organ
mr|swain|of|this|review|is|a|stanch|advoc|of|democrat|principl
and|has|held|a|number|of|township|offic|he|was|former|a|member|of
the|township|committe|and|for|twentytwo|year|has|been|a|justic|of|the
peac|he|belong|to|cannon|lodg|f|a|m|at|south|seavill|and|was
at|one|time|a|member|of|the|grang|he|has|been|true|to|everi|trust|re
pose|in|him|by|his|fellow|townsmen|and|discharg|his|offici|duti|with
mark|prompt|and|fidel
alfr|r|kaxdl
alfr|r|kandl|is|one|of|the|wealthi|agriculturist|of|gloucest|counti
and|has|arisen|to|this|posit|in|financi|circl|entir|by|his|own|labor
start|out|in|life|emptyhand|he|has|steadili|work|his|way|upward
overcom|all|difficulti|and|obstacl|in|his|path|by|determin|purpos
and|resolut|will|his|unflag|energi|has|brought|to|him|prosper
and|todav|he|is|the|owner|of|valuabl|farm|land|and|of|two|sawmil|which
add|to|the|commerci|activ|of|the|communiti|as|well|as|to|his|individu
prosper
the|life|historv|of|mr|kandl|can|not|fail|to|prove|of|interest|to|mani|of
our|reader|for|he|is|both|wide|and|favor|known|throughout|this|sec
tion|of|new|jersey|he|was|born|in|pittsgrov|salem|counti|may|thirteen
one|eighty-five|one|his|father|adam|kandl|was|also|a|nativ|of|the|same|local|and
the|grandfath|also|name|adam|was|born|in|that|place|the|famili|is|of
german|lineag|and|was|found|in|america|by|the|greatgrandfath|the
three hundred and twenty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
father|of|our|subject|was|a|farmer|by|occup|follow|that|pursuit
throughout|his|busi|career|he|serv|as|a|township|committeeman
and|was|also|a|freehold|his|wife|who|bore|the|maiden|name|of|hannah
potter|was|a|daughter|of|michael|potter|and|was|born|near|pittsgrov
salem|counti|her|father|was|a|well|known|hunter|and|fanner|and|serv
his|countri|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|live|to|the|advanc|age|of|one|hun
dred|and|eight|year|unto|adam|and|hannah|kandl|were|bom|six|chil
dren|five|of|whom|are|live|name|john|m|a|resid|of|gloucest|citi
xew|jersey|joseph|a|of|monroevill|a|r|adam|p|who|make|his
home|in|vineland|and|harriett|e|the|wife|of|stephen|crane|of|mllow
grove
a|r|kandl|attend|the|countri|school|throughout|the|winter|month
and|in|the|summer|season|aid|in|the|work|of|the|farm|in|that|manner
his|boyhood|day|were|pass|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|began|busi|on|his|own
account|by|open|a|store|in|porchtown|franklin|township|gloucest
counti|where|he|carri|on|general|merchandis|for|four|year|take|up
his|abod|on|the|old|homestead|in|pittsgrov|he|resid|there|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven
when|he|came|to|his|present|farm|in|ashington|township|near|glassboro
he|also|has|a|sawmil|there|and|his|farm|compris|eightyseven|acr|of
valuabl|land|which|is|under|a|high|state|of|cultiv|he|also|has|one
hundr|and|thirtyf|acr|in|anoth|tract|and|oper|his|two|mill
his|agricultur|and|industri|interest|yield|to|him|a|handsom|incom|and
have|gain|him|a|posit|among|the|wealthi|men|of|his|counti|his
mark|success|is|most|credit|and|his|life|demonstr|what|can|be|ac
complish|through|determin|purpos
mr|kandl|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|georgiana|crane|a|daughter
of|mose|crane|of|gloucest|counti|the|wed|take|place|on|the|13th
of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|their|union|has|been|bless|with|five|children|of|whom
four|are|hving|osceola|olney|b|clinton|si|and|west|j|all|still|under
the|patern|roof
in|his|polit|affili|mr|kandl|is|a|democrat|and|has|taken|an
activ|interest|in|polit|do|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|growth|and
insur|the|success|of|his|parti|he|has|been|a|township|committeeman
has|serv|on|the|board|of|educ|and|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|was|elect
freehold|be|the|present|incumb|his|church|relat|are|with|the
methodist|episcop|organ|at|pittman|grove|and|he|is|now|serv|as
a|steward|of|the|church|and|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|he
is|a|member|of|the|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|and|of|the|junior|order|of
american|ilechan|and|has|been|through|all|the|chair|of|the|latter|organi
zation|he|command|the|respect|of|his|fellow|men|by|his|fidelitv|to|dutv
congressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|three hundred and twenty-three
in|all|the|relat|of|life|in|his|busi|deal|he|is|straightforward|and
honor|and|in|the|work|of|the|church|and|in|public|offic|he|is|faith|and
loval|he|well|deser|represent|in|this|volum|and|it|is|with|pleasur
that|we|present|the|record|of|his|life|to|our|reader
torn|black
this|honor|and|vener|citizen|of|gloucest|counti|is|still|activ
dentifi|with|farm|interest|in|oolwich|township|where|he|own|two
hundr|acr|of|valuabl|land|his|identif|with|busi|affair|after
pass|the|eightieth|mileston|on|life|s|journey|is|an|indic|of|the|in
dustri|and|enterpris|which|have|ever|been|number|among|his|chief|char
acterist|and|should|put|to|shame|mani|a|younger|man|who|grown|weari
of|the|struggl|and|trial|of|busi|life|would|releg|to|other|the
burden|which|he|should|bear
ir|black|was|born|in|counti|tyron|ireland|june|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|and|is|a
son|of|william|and|gnes|craig|black|his|father|was|an|extens
farmer|and|flaxgrow|and|in|that|busi|the|subject|of|this|review|as
sist|until|twenti|year|of|age|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|he|came|to|the|unit|state|hop
ing|to|better|his|condit|in|the|xew|world|where|superior|advantag
were|otfer|to|ambiti|young|men|he|soon|secur|employ|of
samuel|deull|who|resid|near|harrisonvill|new|jersey|remain|with
him|for|a|year|he|afterward|spent|a|year|and|a|half|in|the|employ|of|ben
jamin|p|lippincott|with|whom|he|continu|for|ten|year|on|the|expira
tion|of|that|period|he|purchas|thirti|acr|of|wild|land|then|in|a|primit
condit|but|with|characterist|energi|he|began|it|improv|clear
the|place|of|the|heavi|timber|with|which|it|was|cover|he|cut|down|tree
in|order|to|make|room|for|the|hous|and|day|after|day|continu|the|work
of|improv|until|the|entir|tract|was|transform|into|rich|and|fertil
field|not|long|after|his|arriv|he|purchas|an|addit|forti|acr|and
has|sinc|ad|to|the|place|until|the|farm|now|compris|two|hundr
acr|of|rich|and|valual|le|land|dure|the|time|that|he|was|clear|and
pave|for|the|properti|mr|black|frecpient|work|all|night|he|has
ever|been|a|most|industri|man|and|even|yet|is|capabl|of|perform
a|hard|day|s|work|in|the|field|his|unab|industri|has|brought|to|him
veri|credit|success|and|his|properti|stand|as|a|monument|to|his|thrift
and|enterpris
on|the|6th|of|septemb|one hundred and eighty-five|one|mr|black|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|ruth|polston|a|daughter|of|john|polston|she|had|formerlv|been|a
five hundred and twenty-four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
member|of|the|lippincott|houselioul|her|marri|life|was|of|short|dura
tion|for|after|four|year|she|was|call|to|the|home|beyond|leav|two
children|joseph|and|alfr|the|former|who|resid|on|one|of|his|father|s
farm|marri|laura|wescott|of|woodstown|and|has|five|children|namelf
ruth|norri|elizabeth|fred|and|sadi|alfr|who|wed|mari|burn
of|woodstown|and|has|two|children|elsi|and|john|is|also|live|on|one|of
his|father|s|farm
ir|black|of|this|review|has|spent|his|entir|life|sinc|his|twentieth|year
in|gloucest|counti|and|has|ever|command|the|respect|and|esteem|w|hich
is|given|to|men|of|sterl|worth|in|the|even|of|life|he|is|crown|with
vener|and|regard|and|while|he|has|attain|a|handsom|compet
he|has|also|won|that|good|name|which|is|rather|to|be|chosen|than|great
rich
h|p|fri
the|kingdom|of|denmark|has|furnish|to|america|some|of|their|most
worthi|citizen|men|who|in|the|activ|affair|of|life|have|occupi|import
and|promin|posit|the|enterpris|and|persever|which|are|so
characterist|of|the|danish|nation|are|found|exemplifi|in|the|subject|of
this|review|he|was|born|in|denmark|januari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|is|the|son|of
o|m|fri|who|was|also|a|nativ|of|that|land|and|belong|to|a|promin
famili|there|the|father|devot|his|energi|to|agricultur|pursuit|and
s|5ent|his|entir|life|in|denmark|he|held|a|number|of|local|offic|and|was
a|faith|and|consist|member|of|the|lutheran|church|his|wife|bore
the|maiden|name|of|matti|peterson|and|her|death|occur|in|denmark
i|will|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|two|year|later|the|father|pass|away|they|were|the|parent
of|six|children|of|whom|three|are|live|h|p|of|this|reiew|p|p|of
california|and|mrs|metti|k|tigerson|of|denmark
in|the|local|school|of|his|nativ|land|h|p|fri|was|educ|and|then
learn|the|trade|of|millwright|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|determin|to|tri|his|fortun|in
america|hope|to|improv|his|financi|condit|in|a|land|where|oppor
tuniti|is|open|to|all|who|have|ambit|and|energi|he|work|on|farm
at|differ|place|and|was|also|connect|with|the|oyster|busi|for|a|time
by|his|industri|and|economi|he|was|enabl|to|save|some|capit|and|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|came|to|gloucest|counti|and|purchas|his|present|farm|com
prise|some|fortysix|acr|of|rich|land|this|is|now|under|a|high|state|of
cultiv|and|add|materi|to|the|incom|of|the|owner|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|also
embark|in|merchandis|in|janvier|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|purchas|a|rug|factori
which|he|has|sinc|success|oper|he|is|a|man|of|excel|busi
congression|district|of|niuv|jersey|three hundred and twenty-five
and|execut|aljil|anl|carri|to|success|comiilet|wliatev|he|under
take
mr|fri|was|marri|on|the|17th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|miss|hannah|b
barn|leconiin|his|wife|she|is|a|daughter|of|edgar|barn|of|janvier
and|l|y|her|marriag|is|the|mother|of|three|children|olah|who|is|conduct
ing|a|rug|factori|fred|who|make|his|home|in|kansa|citi|and|iatti
who|is|with|her|parent|the|famili|attend|the|presbyterian|church|of
which|mr|fri|is|an|activ|and|influenti|member|he|serv|as|the|sujier
intend|of|the|sundayschool|and|has|activ|labor|for|the|growth|and
upbuild|of|the|church|the|becaus|of|educ|also|find|in|him|a|warm
friend|and|his|effort|as|school|truste|result|in|advanc|the|standard
of|school|in|this|local|he|may|truli|be|call|a|selfmad|man|for|he
came|to|the|new|world|without|capit|and|by|the|exercis|of|dilig|and
sound|judgment|he|has|work|his|way|steadili|upward|to|a|posit|of|af
fluenc|be|now|numlier|among|the|substanti|citizen|of|the|com
muniti
john|w|mclure
among|the|worthi|offici|whose|fidel|to|duti|commend|him|to|the
public|confid|is|john|w|mcclure|the|wellknown|postmast|of|il
liamstown|he|was|born|in|counti|antrim|ireland|april|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and
belong|to|an|old|famili|of|that|place|there|his|grandfath|samuel|mc
clure|and|his|father|thoma|mcclure|were|both|born|the|latter|was|a
tailor|by|trade|and|was|a|good|man|who|in|all|the|relat|of|life|was|true
to|duti|and|principl|for|mani|year|he|serv|as|an|elder|in|the|presbi
terian|church|and|die|in|that|faith|juli|five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|his|wife|who|bore|the
maiden|name|of|elizabeth|kirkpatrick|is|a|daughter|of|william|kirkpatrick
and|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventi|year|they|have|a|famili|of|eight
children|but|onli|two|are|now|live|margaret|j|and|john|v
the|subject|of|this|review|was|educ|in|the|common|school|he|was
brought|to|this|countri|by|his|father|when|onli|three|year|of|age|and|when
a|lad|of|twelv|took|up|his|resid|in|williamstown|where|he|has|sinc
made|his|home|at|an|earli|age|he|learn|the|tailor|s|trade|and|follow
that|pursuit|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|but|for|mani|year|his|labor|have|l|een|devot|to
the|public|servic|he|has|been|frequent|call|to|offic|by|his|fellow
townsmen|who|recogn|his|worth|and|abil|and|who|have|found|in|him
a|faith|protector|of|the|general|interest|he|was|elect|and|serv|as
assessor|for|eleven|vear|has|been|a|township|committeeman|for|five|year
and|for|six|vear|has|fill|the|osit|of|postmast|in|polit|he|is|a
three hundred and twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
stanch|democrat|and|has|taken|a|veri|activ|interest|in|pohtic|question
keep|well|inform|on|the|issu|of|the|da|in|addit|to|the|other
offic|he|has|fill|he|was|district|clerk|and|school|truste|for|a|number|of
year|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|was|appoint|by|presid|cleveland|as|postmast|of
illiamstown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|reelect|to|the|posit|and|is|a|popular
ofifici|he|is|the|owner|of|one|hundr|and|sixtyon|acr|of|land|which
is|cultix|under|his|direct|superxis|and|he|deri|from|his|farm|a
good|incom
on|the|21st|of|iniarch|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|mr|mcclure|was|unit|in|marriag|to
mari|jane|lashley|a|daughter|of|georg|c|lashley|of|gloucest|counti
they|had|two|children|but|onli|one|is|now|live|jame|c|a|physician|re
side|at|home|who|was|graduat|at|the|georgetown|univers|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
the|famili|attend|the|presbyterian|church|of|which|mr|mcclure|is|a|promi
nent|member|he|is|the|secretari|of|the|board|of|truste|and|is|zealous
interest|in|all|that|tend|to|it|advanc|he|is|also|a|repres
of|that|most|ancient|of|all|benevol|fratern|the|mason|order|and
of|the|local|lodg|is|sere|as|tyler|his|sterl|worth|his|high|moral
charact|and|his|genial|manner|have|won|him|a|larg|circl|of|friend|and
he|is|favor|known|throughout|his|countv
piorac|e|richardson
horac|evan|richardson|is|now|occupi|the|posit|of|postmast
of|cape|may|court|hous|and|is|one|of|the|lead|and|influenti|citizen
of|the|communiti|and|a|worthi|repres|of|two|of|the|oldest|famili
in|this|section|of|the|state|he|was|born|at|rio|grand|on|the|22d|of|feb
ruari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|his|parent|be|joseph|and|louisa|slaughter|richardson
the|famili|name|is|of|english|origin|the|patern|greatgreatgrandfath
jacob|richardson|was|a|nativ|of|england|and|came|to|this|countri|prior
to|the|revolutionari|war|locat|at|rio|grand|cape|may|counti|where
he|purchas|from|the|est|jersey|associ|a|larg|tract|of|land|com
prise|more|than|three|hundr|acr|he|thus|becam|one|of|tlie|pioneer
settler|of|the|local|he|had|two|son|jacob|and|samuel|the|former
was|the|greatgiandfath|of|our|subject|and|he|inherit|the|old|home
stead|upon|which|he|spent|his|remain|day|his|children|were|john
jeremiah|abigail|and|prudenc
jeremiah|richardson|the|grandfath|of|him|whose|name|introduc
this|reiew|was|born|at|rio|grand|on|the|30th|of|imay|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|and|was|a
jtiyfc
cowgressron|distrlct|of|new|jersey|three hundred and twenty-seven
sea|captain|and|own|a|number|of|vessel|and|sloop|engag|in|the|coast
ing|trade|one|of|his|vessel|was|captur|as|a|prize|of|war|by|the|british
in|the|war|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|after|that|mr|richardson|enlist|in|the|coast|defens
servic|and|did|duti|along|the|jersey|coast|between|diverti|s|point|and
town|bank|he|live|at|rio|grand|for|sever|year|and|in|connect
with|farm|was|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|salt|subsequ|he|be
came|wreck|master|on|the|coast|and|on|one|occas|when|attempt|to
save|a|crew|he|through|excit|and|exposur|lost|his|voic|and|never
recov|it|he|was|marri|januari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|to|mrs|lydia|holm|nee
hildreth|who|was|born|april|seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|and|was|a|daughter|of|stihvel|hil
dreth|unto|mr|and|mrs|richardson|were|born|four|children|jeremiah
who|marri|hannah|leam|and|had|three|children|furman|sophia|and
charl|lydia|who|becam|the|wife|of|captain|alfr|sharp|and|had|a
son|coleman|who|becam|a|sea|captain|and|was|lost|at|sea|leav|a|widow
who|bore|the|maiden|name|of|rachel|ross|and|a|daughter|helen
joseph|who|was|the|next|in|order|of|birth|and|martha|ann|who|was|the
youngest|and|becam|the|wife|of|samuel|roseman|and|they|had|two|chil
dren|alfretta|the|wife|of|howard|buck|by|whom|she|had|a|son|howard
and|delia|the|wife|of|daniel|miller|the|grandfath|die|februari|twenty-three
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|at|the|age|of|forttwn|and|the|grandmoth|pass|away|on|the|3d|of
octob|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|at|the|age|of|seventyf|year
joseph|richardson|the|father|of|him|whose|name|begin|this|review
was|born|juli|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|at|rio|grand|cape|may|counti|where|he|has
spent|his|entir|life|he|own|one|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|land|and|is
engag|in|farm|and|fruitrais|make|a|specialti|of|the|cultiv|of
appl|pear|peach|and|small|fruit|for|a|number|of|year|he|was|also
engag|in|oyster|plant|in|his|own|sound|and|found|that|a|profit
sourc|of|incom|in|polit|he|is|a|stanch|republican|and|for|twelv|year
serv|as|postmast|of|rio|grand|a|consist|member|of|the|baptist
church|he|doe|all|in|his|power|to|promot|it|interest|and|donat|the
ground|upon|which|the|present|hous|of|worship|of|that|denomin|in
rio|grand|is|erect|he|was|marri|march|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|to|e|t|v|slaugh
ter|a|daughter|of|doctor|jame|slaughter|they|have|three|children|hor
ace|evan|edwin|e|who|was|born|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|and|joseph|neaf
fie|who|was|born|august|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|was|marri|june|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|to|miss
luckhart|of|philadelphia|he|is|a|graduat|of|the|philadelphia|colleg|of
pharmaci|and|is|now|conduct|a|prosper|drug|busi|at|the|corner
of|sixth|and|diamond|street|philadelphia|mr|and|mrs|richardson|are
still|live|in|the|enjoy|of|good|health|mrs|richardson|is|still|well
preserv|for|a|ladi|of|her|year|and|is|a|beauti|woman|whose|charm
three hundred and twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
entertain|and|gracious|hospit|make|lier|home|a|favorit|resort|for
her|larg|circl|of|friend
on|the|matern|side|mr|richardson|is|descend|from|jame|slaughter
his|greatgrandfath|who|was|a|slavehold|at|spottsylvania|virginia
where|he|own|a|larg|plantat|and|spent|his|entir|life|his|onli|son
doctor|jame|slaughter|was|a|graduat|of|the|medic|depart|of|the
univers|of|pennsylvania|and|for|mani|year|was|a|promin|physician
of|lancast|citi|that|state|but|subsequ|remov|to|philadelphia|and
open|an|offic|on|broad|street|he|was|twice|marri|his|first|union|be
ing|with|eliza|turner|their|children|are|jame|lafayett|who|die|in
infanc|virginia|who|die|in|infanc|dr|jame|madison|thoma|jeffer
son|and|mrs|richardson|the|elder|surviv|son|marri|lizzi|snider
of|philadelphia|and|is|now|a|practic|physician|in|rio|grand|new|jer
sey|their|children|are|mari|laura|john|virgil|sarah|a|dr|herbert
who|is|a|dentist|of|philadelphia|and|evan|a|hotel|proprietor|of|wildwood
new|jersey|rev|thoma|jefferson|slaughter|marri|lizzi|baili|and
resid|on|the|old|henri|clay|homestead|on|the|eastern|shore|of|mari
land|they|had|three|son|william|thoma|and|howard|dr|slaughter
the|grandfath|of|our|subject|die|februari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|at|the|age|of|seventi
year|and|his|wife|pass|away|june|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|at|the|age|of|fiftyseven|year
horac|e|richardson|the|subject|of|this|review|pursu|his|preliminari
educ|in|the|public|school|of|rio|grand|and|afterward|attend
pierc|s|busi|colleg|next|he|becam|associ|with|hubbard|broth
er|publish|on|chestnut|street|philadelphia|in|the|capac|of|book
keeper|for|that|hous|for|four|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|enter|the|employ|of|the
prudenti|insur|compani|where|he|remain|as|agent|for|one|year
and|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|has|been|assist|superintend|for|cape|may|counti
and|a|part|of|atlant|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|appoint|the|postmast|of
cape|may|court|hous|and|is|now|veri|capabl|discharg|the|duti|of
that|offic|in|polit|he|take|a|deep|interest|and|keep|well|inform|on
the|issu|of|the|day|and|has|serv|as|a|deleg|to|various|convent|of
the|republican|parti
on|the|15th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|rich
ardson|and|miss|melissa|l|hoffman|a|daughter|of|william|hoffman|a|sea
captain|resid|at|cold|spring|new|jersey|they|have|two|children
ethel|d|and|lizzi|h|mr|richardson|is|a|member|of|hereford|lodg
i|o|o|f|and|ponemah|tribe|i|o|r|m|he|and|his|wife|hold|mem
bership|in|the|baptist|church|and|occupi|enviabl|posit|in|social|cir
cles|enjoy|the|high|regard|of|mani|friend|mr|richardson|is|a|lover
of|field|sport|especi|gun|he|was|also|the|promot|of|the|bicycl
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and twenty-nine
path|from|cape|may|court|hous|to|cape|may|citi|he|has|alway|live|in
this|local|and|has|ever|given|a|commend|support|to|enterpris|and
measur|calcul|to|prove|a|public|benefit|his|own|life|record|has|been
so|credit|and|honor|that|it|has|brought|no|stain|upon|the|untarnish
famili|name
john|m|moor
to|no|man|is|the|prosper|and|advanc|of|clayton|due|in|a|greater
degre|than|to|john|m|moor|who|is|today|at|the|head|of|a|veri|import
industri|conduct|under|the|name|of|the|moor|brother|glass|work
this|concern|has|been|a|veri|import|factor|in|the|upbuild|and|progress
of|the|town|for|the|welfar|of|the|communiti|depend|upon|it|commerci
and|industri|activ|and|in|the|glasswork|employ|is|furnish|to
sever|hundr|oper|the|enterpris|yield|to|the|owner|a|handsom
incom|which|is|well|merit|for|they|have|risen|through|their|own|effort
to|posit|of|promin|in|the|busi|world|and|their|success|is|liut|a
just|reward|for|their|labor
john|m|moor|was|born|in|bridgeton|cumberland|counti|new|jer
sey|januar|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|he|pursu|his|educ|in|the|common|school|but
at|an|earli|age|put|asid|his|textbook|and|when|a|young|man|of|nineteen
year|left|home|go|to|millvill|new|jersey|where|he|remain|for
twelv|year|he|there|learn|the|busi|of|the|manufactur|of|glass
and|on|the|expir|of|that|period|travel|across|the|contin|spend
one|year|in|california|in|the|winter|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|came|to|clayton
and|purchas|a|glass|factori|of|one|who|had|fail|in|busi|after|a
few|month|he|was|join|by|his|brother|wilson|and|on|a|small|scale|they
began|oper|have|but|one|furnac|their|trade|howev|has|stead
ili|increas|and|in|order|to|meet|the|grow|demand|they|have|increas
their|facil|until|the|plant|is|now|equip|with|five|furnac|and|all|of|the
latest|improv|and|machineri|need|in|their|line|they|manufactur
green|glass|bottl|and|employ|five|hundr|men|and|boy|from|time|to
time|they|have|extend|the|field|of|their|busi|and|in|connect|with
their|glass|factori|they|conduct|a|gristmil|and|sawmil|and|a|machin
shop|their|vari|interest|have|been|a|mean|of|larg|increas|the
popul|of|clayton|which|has|grown|from|a|town|of|three|hundr|to
three|thousand|peopl|mani|of|these|have|come|to|clayton|to|work|in
the|factori|and|mill|own|by|mr|moor|and|this|is|now|a|prosper
and|thrive|communiti|for|he|pay|good|wage|to|his|employ|and|treat
them|with|all|due|consider|he|is|also|a|director|in|the|millvill|na
three hundred and thirty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
tional|bank|a|director|in|the|west|jersey|seashor|railroad|compani
and|is|the|owner|of|one|thousand|acr|of|vahiabl|land|which|is|devot|to
general|farm|and|to|the|rais|of|veget
june|four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|john|m|loor|and|ellen
r|morgan|a|daughter|of|samuel|morgan|of|salem|counti|they|becam
the|parent|of|eight|children|of|whom|six|are|live|cornelia|f|anna|e
lydia|m|laura|d|edwin|k|and|florenc|the|son|has|studi|medi
cine|and|is|now|resid|physician|in|the|german|hospit|in|philadelphia
mr|moor|take|quit|an|activ|interest|in|town|matter|and|has|been
judg|of|the|court|for|five|year|he|is|also|a|truste|of|the|presbyterian
church|and|give|his|aid|and|activ|cooper|to|all|moement|calcul
to|prove|of|public|benefit|he|is|a|veri|promin|mason|belong|to|for
est|grove|lodg|no|gi|of|clayton|siloam|chapter|r|a|al|of
camden|and|to|the|scottish|rite|in|which|he|has|attain|the|thirtysecond
degre
his|life|stand|in|evid|of|the|possibl|that|are|open|to|young|men
in|america|the|qualiti|which|here|secur|advanc|may|be|cultiv
by|all|for|success|depend|upon|close|applic|care|manag|and
sound|judgment|these|have|been|the|salient|point|in|the|charact|of|mr
moor|and|have|won|him|most|signal|success
benjamix|eitlx
benjamin|wellman|who|is|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|in|west|cape
may|is|a|son|of|david|and|amanda|fox|ellman|and|was|born|in|wood
buri|litchfield|counti|connecticut|octob|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|the|wellman|famili
is|of|welsh|origin|and|was|found|in|america|by|three|brother|of|the|name
who|cross|the|atlant|take|up|their|abod|in|new|england|to|the
commonschool|system|of|this|land|benjamin|wellman|is|indebt|for|the
educ|privileg|he|receiv|his|boyhood|day|were|spent|on|the
home|farm|where|he|earli|becam|familiar|with|all|the|duti|and|labor
that|fall|to|the|lot|of|the|agriculturist|when|the|tocsin|of|war|was|sound
howev|he|left|his|plow|and|respond|to|the|countri|s|call|for|troop|en
list|in|the|nineteenth|regiment|of|connecticut|olunt|known|as|the
second|heavi|artilleri|he|particip|in|mani|hot|contest|engag
ment|includ|the|battl|of|north|anna|river|and|cold|harbor|he|en
tere|the|armi|as|a|privat|and|was|promot|to|the|rank|of|quartermast
and|afterward|to|commissaryserg|while|take|part|in|the|oper
befor|petersburg|he|was|wound|and|confin|in|the|hospit|from|june
coxgressiox|district|of|xeu|jersey|three hundred and thirty-one
until|decemb|at|the|lattl|of|cold|harbor|a|musket|ball|pass|through
his|cheek|and|came|out|back|of|his|ear|while|thus|lie|on|the|ground
wound|anoth|ball|struck|him|in|the|dorsal|vertebra|and|while|he|was
still|upon|the|field|two|rebel|came|up|to|him|ask|him|what|regiment|he
belong|to|and|offer|him|some|water|but|soon|afterwanl|two|lumdr|of
the|confeder|troop|came|that|way|and|step|over|him|as|he|lay|on|the
ground|wound|and|sulter|for|about|fifteen|hour|he|thus|remain
upon|the|battlefield|and|was|then|taken|to|the|hospit|where|he|remain
for|six|month|on|the|expir|of|that|period|he|rejoin|his|old|com
mand|in|front|of|petersburg|start|with|it|in|pursuit|of|lee|and|was|pres
ent|at|the|surrend|at|appomattox|on|the|12th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|his|com
mand|then|march|to|bunkervill|and|with|the|first|divis|of|the|sixth
armi|corp|went|to|danvill|after|two|week|they|return|to|richmond
and|were|encamp|at|manchest|opposit|richmond|for|a|time|but|sub
sequent|move|northward|to|washington|d|c|a|march|of|one|hundr
and|fort|mile|his|regiment|was|discharg|at|woodburi|new|haven
about|the|close|of|the|war|and|from|the|state|servic|at|fair|haven|connec
ticut|of|the|fortyf|men|who|join|the|armi|from|his|town|at|the|time
of|his|enlist|onli|thirteen|return|and|seventyf|per|cent|of|the|men
of|the|regiment|were|either|kill|or|wound|in|battl|at|the|battl|of
cold|harbor|the|regiment|number|eighteen|hundr|and|at|it|close|there
were|between|three|and|four|hundr|men|who|had|laid|down|their|live|on
the|altar|of|their|countrw|they|also|sustain|veri|heavi|loss|in|the
shenandoah|valley|but|mr|wellman|was|among|those|fortun|enough|to
escap|and|with|an|honoralil|war|record|he|return|to|the|north|receivmg
his|discharg|on|juli|seven|1s65
ahen|hostil|had|ceas|mr|wellman|becam|a|resid|of|vineland
new|jersey|and|for|a|time|was|connect|with|busi|interest|there|he
is|now|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|in|west|cape|may|where|he|has|a
well|appoint|store|carri|a|larg|and|complet|line|of|stapl|and|fanci
groceri|in|his|deal|he|is|honor|and|straightforward|and|his
known|reliabl|combin|with|his|uniform|courtesi|to|his|patron|has
secur|him|a|larg|trade|his|polit|support|is|given|to|the|prohibit
parti|of|which|he|is|an|inflex|adher|be|veri|zealous|and|activ|in
it|interest|he|has|serv|as|school|truste|but|has|never|been|an|ofc
seeker|prefer|to|devot|his|time|and|attent|to|his|busi|interest
he|is|a|valu|member|of|the|john|mecray|post|no|forty|g|a|r|with
which|he|has|been|connect|for|fifteen|year|dure|which|time|he|has|fill
all|of|it|offic
on|the|jcith|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|mr|wellman|was|unit|in|marriag|to
t|two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ir|achsah|grant|dunakin|of|hadley|massachusett|tlire|cliiklren
were|born|to|them|two|of|them|were|charl|traci|who|marri|ada
grace|and|is|an|engin|and|joseph|h|a|merchant|who|marri|lilla
hay|of|lillvill|and|they|have|three|children|rosa|edith|and|earnest
dure|his|resid|in|west|cape|may|mr|wellman|has|attain|to|the
lead|posit|in|commerci|circl|and|has|gain|the|confid|and
good|will|of|all
joshua|waddington
for|mani|year|this|gentleman|was|connect|with|the|agricultur|inter
est|of|salem|count|and|is|now|live|retir|in|the|citi|of|salem|enjoy
a|rest|which|he|has|truli|earn|and|rich|deserv|his|life|is|an|exemplifi
cation|of|what|may|be|accomplish|through|determin|purpos|and|unabat
ing|industri
mr|waddington|is|a|nativ|of|salem|counti|his|birth|have|occur
in|elsinboro|township|march|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|he|is|a|son|of|aaron|and|sarah
keasbi|waddington|and|a|grandson|of|jonathan|waddington|the|latter
was|born|in|lower|alloway|creek|township|and|there|spent|the|day|of|his
childhood|and|youth|he|acquir|consider|properti|and|at|the|time
of|his|death|was|the|owner|of|two|valuabl|farm|one|in|his|nativ|town
ship|the|other|in|elsinijoro|township|where|he|made|his|home|he|marri
sarah|bradway|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|six|children|name|wil
liam|who|marri|martha|carl|and|was|a|promin|farmer|of|lower
alloway|creek|township|he|was|a|veri|prudent|and|influenti|citizen|of
the|communiti|in|which|he|resid|enjoy|the|public|confid|in|a|re
markabl|degre|and|was|frequent|call|upon|to|settl|estat|and|transact
busi|for|the|counti|he|had|five|children|william|jess|anna|martha
and|hannah|robert|addington|the|second|son|of|jonathan|wad
ton|marri|a|miss|tomlinson|of|camden|new|jersey|and|die|in|earli
manhood|leav|three|children|aaron|samuel|and|jame|who|were
rear|by|their|uncl|aaron|the|father|of|our|subject|was|the|third|in|order
of|birth|in|this|famili|thoma|the|fourth|was|a|resid|farmer|of|elsin
boro|township|and|marri|mari|smith|by|whom|he|had|the|follow|chil
dren|john|elizabeth|robert|catherin|mari|sarah|jonathan|and
thoma|jonathan|the|next|of|the|famili|was|a|seafar|man|and|made
his|home|in|bristol|pennsylvania|he|marrietl|a|miss|johnson|and|to|them
was|born|one|child|edward|who|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and|marri
prudenc|keasbi|by|whom|he|had|eight|children|richard|sarah|pru
denc|elizabeth|joseph|lydia|ann|rebecca|and|edward|who|die|in
yfiyvux|payc|zero|ctntyy|i
congression|district|of|nejr|jersey|three hundred and thirty-three
youth|the|father|of|tlies|children|jonathan|addington|he|would|in|his|six
tieth|year
aaron|waddington|the|father|of|our|subject|was|liorn|in|the|villag|of
salem|in|novemb|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|after|arriv|at|year|of|matur|he|ran|the
old|homestead|farm|and|was|the|owner|of|a|valuabl|tract|of|land|at|the|time
of|his|death|in|his|polit|affili|he|was|a|whig|he|attend|the
meet|of|the|hicksit|friend|be|a|firm|believ|in|the|faith|of|that
societi|and|he|contribut|liider|to|it|support|and|did|all|in|his|power|to
promot|it|growth|and|progress|he|marri|sarah|keasbi|and|by|their
union|were|born|five|children|nameh|sarah|ann|the|eldest|who|was|born
in|eighteen|sixteen|and|becam|the|wife|of|john|vine|hill|a|carriagemak|of|salem
by|whom|she|had|three|children|sarah|ellen|anna|and|john|vine|the
latter|a|resid|of|philadelphia|mrs|hill|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|lydia|keasbi|who
was|born|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|marri|jonathan|s|avhit|a|son|of|samuel
white|near|woodstown|by|whom|she|had|one|child|gertrud|yarrow|now
the|wife|of|joseph|k|lippincott|of|haddonfield|joshua|whose|name|head
this|sketch|is|the|next|of|the|famili|aaron|bradway|born|in|novemb
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|was|a|farmer|and|later|a|miller|wed|mari|white|by|whom|he|had
two|children|ada|wife|of|bowman|renwick|of|belfast|new|york|frank
and|jane|the|youngest|of|the|famili|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|she|was
the|wife|of|jame|l|fonda|and|had|one|daughter|adel|mari|who|mar
rie|john|woodley|of|denver|colorado|by|whom|she|has|three|children
earl|alic|and|gertrud|lippincott|aaron|waddington|the|father|of|these
children|whose|histori|we|have|thus|briefli|given|die|april|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|at|the
age|of|sixtytwo|year|the|mother|pass|away|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|in|her
thirtyfifth|year
joshua|waddington|spent|his|boyhood|day|in|the|township|of|his|na
tiviti|and|obtain|his|educ|in|a|privat|school|conduct|by|the|societi
of|friend|he|put|asid|his|textbook|at|the|age|of|twenti|and|return|to
the|work|of|the|farm|with|which|he|had|becom|familiar|through|practic
experi|in|his|earli|youth|he|assist|his|father|in|the|oper|of|the
old|homestead|until|his|death|and|then|succeed|to|it|ownership|oper
it|success|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|when|he|return|to|3rivat|life|he|follow|most
progress|method|in|his|agricultur|pursuit|and|neat|and|thrift
character|all|depart|of|the|farm|labor|his|well|till|field|yield
to|him|a|golden|tribut|in|return|for|the|care|and|labor|he|bestow|upon
them|and|when|the|capit|he|had|acquir|made|it|jjossiljl|for|him|to|put
asid|the|more|arduous|duti|of|busi|life|he|came|to|salem|where|he
has|sinc|rest|in|the|enjoy|of|the|fruit|of|his|former|toil|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he
erectetl|a|lieauti|brick|resid|whic|stand|on|a|lawn|of|about|three
three hundred and thirty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fourth|of|an|acr|in|extent|he|is|also|the|owner|of|the|old|farmstead|of
one|htmdred|and|forti|acr|in|elsinboro|township|and|has|five|hundr
acr|of|land|in|richmond|counti|virginia|which|properti|is|beauti|lo
cate|on|the|rappahannock|river
on|the|31st|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|ir
watldington|and|miss|nn|anneman|a|daughter|of|andrew|vanneman
who|was|a|farmer|of|mannington|township|salem|counti|they|becam|the
parent|of|seven|children|paulin|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|luarri|richard
henri|holm|an|extens|milk|and|butter|dealer|of|baltimor|maryland
where|they|make|their|home|he|is|also|engag|in|oper|a|canning
factori|in|virginia|mr|and|mrs|holm|have|three|children|ann|wad
dington|henri|denni|and|hilda|paulin|louella|the|second|of|the|fam
ili|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|ernst|anton|who|was|born|in|one hundred and eighty-five|one|marri|lari
ella|heishon|by|whom|he|has|six|children|anna|franc|ernst|anton
ada|renwick|helen|henri|norman|and|donald|heishon|he|make|his
home|in|baltimor|and|is|associ|in|busi|with|mr|holm|sarah|ann
born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|marri|pari|horney|minhenhal|a|farmer|of|ermilion
grove|vermilion|counti|illinoi|by|whom|she|has|two|children|kenneth
monro|and|georgia|florenc|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|jenni|fonda|was|born
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|laura|franc|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|is|the|wife|of|w|henri|dunn|a
druggist|of|salem|by|whom|she|has|three|children|henri|addington
albert|lawrenc|and|ralph|gabl|our|subject|and|wife|have|been|marri
fiftytwo|year|and|have|seven|children|and|fourteen|grandchildren|all|live
in|his|earli|life|mr|waddington|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|hig
parti|and|on|it|dissolut|join|the|rank|of|the|republican|parti|he|is
now|howev|a|strong|advoc|of|the|prohibit|parti|and|by|his|ballot
support|it|men|and|measur|he|is|a|man|of|firm|convict|unfalt
in|their|support|and|is|at|all|time|true|and|loyal|to|a|becaus|in|which|he
believ|he|has|been|honor|with|a|number|of|local|offic|the|duti|of
which|he|has|discharg|with|mark|fidel|and|abil|his|entir|life
has|been|pass|in|salem|counti|and|his|career|has|been|a|most|honor
and|upright|one|which|is|indic|by|the|fact|that|mani|who|have|known
him|from|bovhood|are|now|number|among|his|warmest|friend
captain|eli|barnett
among|tlie|old|resid|of|holli|beach|is|captain|barnett|who|for
thirtyf|year|has|been|engag|in|the|oyster|trade|of|this|place|he|is|a
son|of|elihu|and|hetti|newton|barnett|and|was|born|at|fish|creek
cape|lay|counti|octob|four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|he|was|rear|at|the|place|of|his
coxgressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|three hundred and thirty-five
nativ|and|dure|his|boyhood|went|to|sea|spend|twentytwo|year|of
his|life|as|a|sailor|for|a|long|time|he|serv|as|mate|and|aftervard|was
made|captain|of|the|cicero|a|coast|vessel|at|dififer|time|he|was|in
command|of|other|vessel|and|follow|the|sea|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|when|he|becam
engag|in|the|oyster|inisi|at|the|inlet|at|holli|beach|where|he|has
remain|for|thirtyf|year|he|plant|oyster|everi|year|and|sell|be
tween|three|and|four|hundr|bushel|in|the|holli|beach|trade|he|is|the
pioneer|in|this|enterpris|at|the|inlet|and|for|a|time|did|a|ship|busi
but|the|local|trade|is|so|great|as|to|cut|off|all|shipment|now|captain|bar
nett|also|has|a|boat|liveri|rent|boat|to|summer|visitor|he|was|cap
tain|of|the|holli|beach|lifesav|station|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|and|held|that|posit|for
five|year|thereaft|receiv|a|salari|of|one|thousand|dollar|he|former
resid|at|erma|where|he|own|a|farm|and|a|hous|and|lot|he|also|has|a
farm|at|fish|creek|and|own|properti|at|the|turtl|girl|inlet
on|the|one|6th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|captain|barnett|marri|miss|carolin
snvder|who|was|born|ugust|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|they|becam|the|parent|of|eleven
children|mari|e|born|novemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|is|now|deceas|hannah|m
born|octob|two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|is|the|wife|of|jame|thoma|a|farmer|and|veget
garden|by|whom|she|has|two|children|harri|and|theresa|somer
born|octob|eighteen|one hundred and eighty-five|one|has|been|connect|with|the|lifesav|station|for
twentyfour|year|and|is|now|engag|in|the|oyster|busi|he|marri
sarah|j|cobb|and|after|her|death|wed|mari|mickel|in|whom|he|has|a
daughter|edna|jacob|born|august|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|is|a|farmer|and|is|also|en
gage|in|the|oyster|busi|he|marri|sarah|crandal|and|they|have
one|daughter|mari|elizabeth|his|second|wife|was|emma|montgomeri
and|they|have|one|child|mari|theresa|born|januari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|is|the|wife
of|charl|shemelin|and|has|one|child|carri|hetti|born|june|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight
is|the|wife|of|georg|dickerson|a|farmer|and|oyster|commiss|merchant
of|xew|tersev|by|whom|she|has|two|children|frank|and|georgia|bar
bara|born|august|fourteen|i860|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|carolin|born|februari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two
die|iarch|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|she|was|the|wife|of|durman|ingersol|and|her|chil
dren|were|luther|jacol|and|lizzi|her|eldest|son|was|on|the|battleship
massachusett|in|the|spanishamerican|war|serv|his|time|as|gunner|s
mate|eli|born|juli|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|now|in|the|oyster|busi|marri|isa
bella|hand|and|after|her|death|marri|lizzi|montgomeri|by|whom|he
has|two|children|flora|and|charl|ulyss|s|grant|who|was|l|orn|on
the|night|general|grant|took|richmond|march|three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|die|may|three|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five
anna|born|april|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|marri|jame|long|who|sail|a|yacht|they
resid|at|erma|new|jersey|and|have|a|son|victor
dure|the|mexican|war|captain|barnett|serv|on|a|vessel|engag|in
three hundred and thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|defens|of|the|american|port|he|is|a|republican|in|his|polit|affilia
tion|but|has|never|sought|or|desir|offic|prefer|to|devot|his|energi
and|time|to|his|busi|interest|he|has|so|conduct|his|affair|as|to|win
a|veri|credit|degre|of|success|and|is|now|the|possessor|of|a|comfort
compet|he|start|out|in|life|for|himself|at|a|veiy|earli|age|and|has
met|difficulti|and|obstacl|but|has|overcom|these|by|determin|purpos
and|his|career|is|an|exemplif|of|the|opportun|that|america|ofter
to|her|ambiti|son
j|t|ogden
xo|life|record|proe|more|conclus|that|success|is|not|a|matter|of
genius|but|is|the|result|of|indefatig|and|sustain|effort|and|that|it
may|be|acquir|by|ani|one|who|care|to|exercis|dilig|and|persever
than|doe|the|histori|of|mr|ogden|of|barnsboro|he|was|born|at|willow
grove|salem|counti|april|two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|is|a|son|of|john|ogden|who|was
a|nativ|of|the|same|place|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|have|been|left|motherless
dure|his|earliest|infanc|j|t|ogden|when|onli|four|month|old|was
adopt|by|samuel|p|tice|a|resid|of|williamstown|and|when|twelv
year|of|age|accompani|his|foster|father|to|barnsboro|he|was|educ
in|the|common|school|acquir|a|good|practic|knowledg|of|the|english
branch|of|learn|but|in|his|youth|his|time|was|larg|devot|to|farm
work|when|onli|fifteen|year|of|age|he|was|employ|on|the|turnpik
and|sometim|act|as|tollgat|keeper|from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|to|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|was|assist
ant|supervisor|of|the|toll|road|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|was|again|appoint|super
visor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|he|was|made|superintend|of|the|road|between|glassboro|and
mantua|no|resid|of|the|communiti|has|done|more|toward|secur|good
road|than|he|and|good|road|are|a|most|import|factor|in|all|public|inter
est|for|both|commerci|and|industri|activ|depend|larg|upon|them
mr|ogden|is|now|the|owner|of|the|farm|of|sixtyf|acr|and|his|properti
is|a|monument|to|his|industri|and|enterpris
the|subject|of|this|review|has|been|twice|marri|his|first|union|be
with|anna|hule|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|leav|a|daughter|emma|l|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|mr|ogden|was|again|marri|his|second|union|ije|with|charlotta
lock|of|bridgeport|new|jersey|the|also|hae|one|daughter|flor
enc|a
mr|ogden|has|alway|been|a|loyal|citizen|and|hard|had|the|gun|of
fort|sumter|been|fire|when|he|offer|his|servic|to|the|govern|as|a
defend|of|the|union|he|was|the|first|volunt|from|this|local|go|to
camden|on|the|20th|of|april|and|there|join|the|washington|grey|which
congressicx|district|of|nejr|jersey|three hundred and thirty-seven
becam|compani|f|fourth|new|jersey|infantri|the|regiment|was|com
mand|by|colonel|rich|miller|and|mr|ogden|continu|at|the|front
dure|his|three|month|term|of|servic|at|about|the|complet|of|that
period|his|father|die|and|he|was|oblig|to|return|home|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|he|was
made|deputi|marshal|of|the|district|and|also|serv|as|the|recruit|offic
for|his|township|until|the|close|of|the|war|in|polit|he|has|alway|espous
the|becaus|of|the|republican|parti|which|stood|so|loyal|by|the|nation|dur
ing|the|dark|day|of|the|civil|war|and|which|has|ever|advoc|the|most
progress|measur|he|has|serv|as|notari|public|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|for|three
term|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|was|justic|of|the|peac|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|was|elect
freehold|was|for|twentyon|year|a|member|of|the|school|board|dure
the|old|law|and|for|seven|term|has|been|a|truste|his|public|duti|have
ever|been|discharg|with|mark|prompt|and|abil|thus|gain
him|the|confid|and|esteem|of|all|concern|social|he|is|connect
with|the|odd|fellow|societi|and|the|improv|order|of|red|men|of|the
former|he|is|a|charter|member|and|has|fill|all|of|the|lodg|offic|through
out|his|career|he|has|manifest|the|same|loyal|spirit|which|prompt|him|to
enlist|under|the|star|and|stripe|in|defens|of|the|union
amariah|f|oliv
a|f|oliv|of|williamstown|was|born|in|rightstown|new|jersey
septemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|his|father|joseph|k|cliver|was|also|a|nativ|of|that
local|as|was|the|grandfath|joseph|cliver|sr|the|famili|origin
in|germani|and|at|an|earli|day|was|establish|on|american|soil|joseph
k|cliver|is|a|farmer|by|occup|and|dure|the|civil|war|loyal|serv
his|countri|as|a|defend|of|the|union|he|still|resid|in|wrightstown|at
the|age|of|eightvon|year|and|person|superintend|the|manag
of|the|farm|he|marri|hannah|asay|a|daughter|of|samuel|asay|of|ger
man|extract|and|she|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|year|ir
and|mrs|cliver|becam|the|parent|of|nine|children|of|whom|five|surviv
samuel|a|resid|of|sburi|park|new|jersey|david|who|is|live|in
camden|joseph|also|a|resid|of|asburi|park|georg|who|make|his
home|in|south|aml|oy|new|jersey|and|a|f
the|subject|of|this|review|attend|the|common|school|until|the|age|of
seventeen|year|and|then|learn|the|blacksmith|s|trade|which|he|has|sinc
follow|as|a|sourc|of|livelihood|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|came|to|williamstown|and
establish|a|blacksmith|and|wagon|shop|manufactur|wagon|in|addi
tion|to|his|work|at|the|blacksmith|trade|he|is|veri|energet|and|his|abl
three hundred and thirty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
workmanship|and|honor|deahng|have|secur|to|him|a|hberal|patronag
on|the|29th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|mr|cliver|was|imit|in|marriag|to
miss|laura|hust|the|daughter|of|charl|w|hust|a|promin|citizen
of|williamstown|who|for|twenti|year|sens|as|justic|of|the|peac|one
child|has|been|bom|of|their|union|r|clififord|the|famili|are|member|of
the|methodist|episcop|church|of|which|mr|cliver|is|truste|he|is|con
nect|with|a|number|of|civic|societi|belong|to|the|mason|fratern
of|which|he|is|now|serv|as|treasur|the|knight|of|pythia|the|junior
order|of|american|mechan|the|improv|order|of|red|men|the|ancient
order|of|knight|of|the|jmystic|chain|and|the|ancient|order|of|unit
orkmen|and|in|a|number|of|these|has|held|various|ofific|he|was|a|char
ter|member|of|wiuiamstown|lodg|of|f|a|l|and|it|present|master
mr|cliver|is|a|direct|descend|of|robert|elwel|who|came|to|new|eng
land|in|winthrop|s|compani|of|earli|massachusett|settler|in|polit|mr
cliver|is|a|republican|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|was|elect|tax|collector|which|posit
he|is|now|fill|in|all|the|relat|of|life|he|has|been|true|to|his|duti|as
a|man|and|a|citizen|and|has|won|the|good|will|of|all|with|whom|he|has|come
in|contact
henri|coomb
henr|coomb|a|farmer|of|elmer|salem|counti|and|exmemb|of|the
legislatur|of|this|district|was|born|lay|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|within|a|stone|s|throw|of
the|hous|in|which|he|now|resid|his|father|was|jame|and|his|grandfath
georg|coomb|both|of|whom|were|nativ|of|his|citi|and|are|buri|in|the
presbyterian|churchyard|at|daretown|as|have|been|past|generat|of|the
coomb|famili|for|more|than|a|centuri
they|were|of|irish|descent|and|the|father|jame|was|consid|one
of|the|best|men|of|the|township|and|took|a|lead|part|in|all|local|afifair
settl|mani|estat|and|held|a|number|of|offic|within|the|gift|of|the|peo
ple|he|was|the|township|superintend|of|school|sever|year|do|all
in|his|power|to|advanc|educ|interest|and|at|the|earnest|entreati|of
his|friend|allow|his|name|to|be|use|as|a|candid|for|assemblyman|but
was|defeat|he|was|publicspirit|and|alway|found|in|the|lead|of|each
and|ever|movement|look|to|the|advanc|of|local|matter|it|was
larg|through|his|influenc|and|enterpris|that|the|west|jersey|railroad
was|put|through|here|with|it|attend|facil|for|travel|and|market|he
was|a|strong|temper|advoc|and|one|of|the|leader|of|the|movement
former|a|an|hig|he|later|becam|identifi|with|the|republican|parti|and
cast|his|vote|with|that|organ|he|was|not|a|member|of|anv|religi
vxvv|o|i
coxgressiox|district|of|xeif|jersey
three hundred and thirty-nine
denomin|yet|he|was|a|regular|attend|at|the|presl|yterian|churc|and
his|life|was|simpl|and|honest|in|this|world|s|good|he|possess|a|com
fortabl|portion|and|was|a|larg|landown|the|ladi|to|whom|he|was
unit|in|marriag|was|liss|henrietta|duboi|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|she
was|the|mother|of|his|nine|children|four|of|whom|are|still|live|he|pass
to|the|better|land|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|one|son|albert|enter|the|civil|war|as|a|member
of|the|twelfth|xew|jersey|olunt|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|die|in|the|hospit|soon
afterward|the|surviv|member|of|the|famili|are|alari|who|marri
henri|appleg|a|sea|captain|who|make|his|home|on|the|old|homestead
edwin|who|is|a|justic|of|the|jieac|of|elmer|henrv|our|subject|and|oliv
who|is|a|storekeep|on|the|fenn|hania|railroad|in|jersev|citw
henri|coomb|attend|school|onehalf|mile|from|the|farm|he|now
occupi|and|when|his|school|was|finish|he|took|up|farm|work|as|the
most|agreeabl|and|independ|life|that|seem|to|be|offer|to|him|in
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|rent|the|farm|upon|which|he|now|live|and|continu|to|be|a|ten
ant|on|that|properti|until|the|death|of|his|father|when|he|bought|the|land
two|hundr|acr|and|carri|on|general|farm|he|has|one|of|the
finest|dairi|in|the|state|compos|of|fifti|highgrad|jersey|cow|and|it|is
a|matter|of|extrem|satisfact|to|mr|coomb|that|his|cattl|are|the|equal
of|ani|highgrad|jersey|he|as|one|of|the|first|men|to|see|the|advantag
offer|by|this|line|of|busi|and|take|advantag|of|it|give|his|patron|a
pure|wholesom|articl|and|in|return|realiz|a|handsom|incom|for|the
time|and|labor|expend|he|is|just|proud|of|the|milk|he|place|on|the
market|aim|for|the|best|and|keep|onli|anim|that|have|a|good|butter
record|he|has|becom|a|veteran|in|this|hne|and|has|suppli|one|man|who
live|in|camden|with|milk|for|upward|of|twenti|year|it|is|a|pleasur|to
visit|his|dairi|and|stabl|and|note|the|system|and|cleanli|with|which|the
work|is|carri|on|the|greatest|care|be|exercis|at|everi|point|from|the
time|the|milk|is|taken|from|the|cow|when|it|is|strain|and|cool|until|it
is|readi|for|the|wagon|to|be|taken|to|town|everi|recaut|is|use|to
keep|it|in|firstclass|conflit|for|consumpt
januari|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|occur|the|marriag|of|henri|coom|and|aliss
lizzi|hitchner|a|daughter|of|daniel|hitchner|of|pittsgrov|township
three|children|have|been|the|honor|of|this|union|henrietta|who|die|at
the|age|of|six|month|mljert|an|inmat|of|his|parent|household|and|j
howard|now|a|pupil|at|pierc|s|colleg|in|philadelphia|mr|coomb|is|a
stanch|republican|and|has|been|one|of|the|leader|in|the|local|organ
serv|on|the|township|committe|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|was|elect|to|the
assembl|in|one hundred and eighty-eight thousand, one hundred and twenty-three|and|was|the|first|to|repres|the|counti|alon|there
have|been|two|assemblymen|irnor|to|lii|term|of|ofc|he|receiv|a
three hundred and forty
biograph|histori|of|the|first
flatter|major|run|far|ahead|of|his|ticket|as|a|member|of|that
bodi|he|serv|as|a|member|of|the|committe|on|agricultur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was
appoint|by|the|governor|to|fill|an|unexpir|term|as|the|surrog|but
was|defeat|for|that|offic|at|the|follow|elect|he|is|a|memler|of|the
methodist|episcop|church|of|this|villag|have|serv|as|a|steward|for
year|he|is|also|the|superintend|of|the|jefferson|sundayschool|and
has|been|the|mean|of|increas|not|onli|the|attend|but|also|the|interest
in|the|school|until|it|is|now|one|of|the|most|flourish|here|he|is|a|pros
perous|progress|citizen|who|occupi|an|enviabl|place|in|the|esteem|of
his|fellow|citizen
marcellus|l|jacksox
marcellus|l|jackson|a|repres|busi|man|of|hammonton
new|jersey|was|born|in|hartland|main|septemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|his|parent
georg|p|and|elizabeth|welch|jackson|were|both|nativ|of|main|the
former|of|english|and|the|latter|of|irish|ancestri
mr|jackson|receiv|a|commonschool|and|academ|educ|in|hart
land|main|and|for|a|year|subsequ|follow|the|vocat|of|teacher|in
his|nativ|state|remov|then|to|burlington|counti|new|jersey|he|con
tinu|teach|there|some|three|year|longer|make|in|the|meantim|a
brief|tour|through|the|west|in|the|spring|of|one hundred and eighty-seven|one|remov|to|hammon
ton|he|engag|in|busi|as|a|butcher|in|compani|with|benjamin|h
bowl|this|partnership|continu|for|near|three|year|when|mr|jack
son|bought|out|the|entir|enterpris|and|has|sinc|continu|busi|at|the
old|locat|establish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|he|erect|the|present|commodi
ous|block|fifti|by|sixtysix|feet|and|two|stori|in|height|in|which|he|give
his|entir|attent|to|his|market|in|this|build|is|also|locat|the|post
offic|in|apart|especi|fit|up|for|the|purpos|by|mr|jackson
busi|success|and|promin|in|the|affair|of|the|town|soon|gave|mr
jackson|wide|financi|and|civic|influenc|he|was|an|origin|member|and
organ|of|the|mechan|build|loan|associ|and|one|of|it|di
rector|he|was|also|promin|in|the|organ|of|the|orkingmen|s
build|loan|associ|and|was|for|some|year|it|presid|and|al
way|a|director|one|of|the|promot|of|the|hammonton|bank|he|was
made|it|first|vicepresid|a|posit|he|still|retain
an|activ|republican|he|held|the|offic|of|town|clerk|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|was|elect|a|freehold|and|still|hold|the|offic|without|opposi
tion|from|either|parti|and|for|two|year|has|been|a|director|of|the|board
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|i|jackson|was|elect|to|the|state|legislatur|by|the|largest|vote
congressioxjl|district|of|xeit|jersey|three hundred and forty-one
ever|cast|for|the|offic|by|his|parti|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|increas|his|former|major
by|about|one|thousand|vote|in|the|legislatur|he|has|serv|on|the|com
mitte|on|agricultur|and|agricultur|colleg|as|the|chairman|of|the|build
ino|committe|on|the|committe|on|corpor|and|also|as|a|member|of
the|joint|committe|on|the|sink|fund
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|mr|jackson|was|appoint|the|postmast|of|hammonton|he
is|a|member|of|winslow|lodg|no|forty|i|c|o|f|and|the|treasur|of
same|a|member|also|of|m|b|taylor|lodg|no|one hundred and forty-one|f|is|a|m|and|a
member|of|j|o|a|m
mr|jackson|has|been|twice|marri|ry|his|first|wife|adelaid|nee
burg|he|had|two|son|fred|l|deceas|and|albert|l|by|his|second
wife|maggi|nee|king|to|whom|he|was|marri|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|has|also
two|children|ernest|m|and|edwin|leroy|his|wife|and|eldest|son|are
l|oth|earnest|worker|in|theaiethodist|episcop|church
c|howard|wvrd
c|howard|ward|of|palatin|xew|jersey|one|of|the|industri|farmer
of|salem|counti|was|born|on|the|farm|where|he|now|live|januari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one
he|was|educ|at|the|common|district|school|and|earli|in|life|took|up
agricultur|and|stockrais|for|a|livelihood|he|now|has|a|larg|herd|of
regist|cattl|jersey|and|guernsey|stock|he|oper|at|the|old|famili
homestead|tend|one|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|land|carri|johnson|the
daughter|of|mr|and|mrs|samuel|johnson|of|upper|pittsgrov|becam|our
subject|s|wife|august|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|one|son|has|ijless|this|home|circl
william|h
in|polit|matter|mr|ward|is|ever|an|activ|aggress|man|attend
all|the|convent|he|is|a|republican|and|was|for|six|year|one|of|the
truste|of|salem|counti|almshous|and|act|as|secretari|of|the|board|he
is|a|member|of|the|olivet|methodist|church|belong|to|the|order|of|red
men|and|is|the|chief|of|record|in|his|lodg|have|held|such|posit|ever
sinc|the|lodg|was|organ|he|is|also|an|honor|member|of|the|ind
pendent|order|of|odd|fellow
concern|his|parentag|and|ancestr|connect|we|may|refer|the
reader|to|the|biographi|of|his|brother|john|c|ward|in|this|volum|it
should|be|state|howev|that|his|father|was|william|h|ward|a|nativ|of
woodburi|new|jersey|our|subject|s|mother|was|befor|her|marriag
miss|mari|ann|cook|of|monmouth|counti|in|our|subject|s|innnedi
famili|there|were|the|follow|children|joseph|t|john|c|jame|c
marv|e|c|howard|prank|g|and|one|deceas
three hundred and forty-two|bfocriphicl|illstorv|of|the|first
much|interest|histori|connect|with|this|famili|may|be|found|as
abov|mention|in|the|sketch|of|john|c|ward|it|ma|be|also|appropri
ate|mention|that|mr|ard|liuilt|a|handsom|hous|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine
mckexdre|lwgley
imckendre|langiey|a|resid|farmer|resid|in|glassboro|township
was|born|august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|in|this|local|and|trace|his|ancestri|back|to
reuben|langiey|whose|birth|occur|in|england|and|who|is|the|founder
of|the|famili|in|the|new|world|his|son|john|was|the|grandfath|of|our
subject|and|the|father|was|samuel|langiey|who|was|born|in|willow|grove
new|jersey|and|remov|to|the|farm|you|on|which|his|son|ickendre|now
resid|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|he|built|the|hous|in|one hundred and eighty-five|one|and|with|characterist|energi
began|clear|and|develop|his|land|place|five|hundr|acr|under|cul
tivat|he|also|did|an|extens|busi|in|lumber|and|charcoal|and|by
his|own|effort|aros|from|a|humbl|posit|to|one|of|affluenc|at|the|time
of|his|death|he|was|the|owner|of|sever|hundr|acr|of|valuabl|land|in
connect|with|other|properti|and|his|possess|w|ere|a|monument|to|his
thrift|and|enterpris|he|was|not|onli|a|lead|busi|man|init|was|rec
ogniz|as|one|of|the|valu|citizen|of|this|communiti|and|serv|as|the
collector|of|his|township|when|clayton|elk|and|gloucest|township|were
one|a|faith|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|held|all|of
it|offic|labor|earnest|for|it|upbuild|and|die|in|it|faith|februari
four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|his|wife|who|had|the|maiden|name|of|sophia|campbel|was|a
daughter|of|daid|campbel|of|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|a|veri
promin|and|influenti|citizen|who|serv|as|the|judg|of|the|counti
court|mrs|langiey|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventyfotir|year|hy
her|marriag|she|becam|the|mother|of|sixteen|children|eight|of|whom|are
live|name|margaret|the|wife|of|john|shaw|of|glassboro|david|who
is|live|near|the|old|homestead|ray|the|wife|of|henri|jenkin|who|also
resid|in|this|local|mckendre|hannah|the|wife|of|georg|cornel|of
glassboro|township|millard|f|who|is|live|in|the|same|township|cahin
and|lena|the|wife|of|rev|daniel|johnson|a|methodist|minist|locat|at
port|republ|new|jersey
mckendre|langiey|pursu|his|educ|in|the|common|school|which
he|attend|through|the|winter|season|while|in|the|summer|month|he
work|upon|the|home|farm|he|earli|began|to|follow|the|plow|and|to|aid
in|harvest|the|crop|and|thus|gain|a|practic|knowledg|of|the|busi
to|which|he|now|dcote|his|energi|he|own|seventvf|acr|of|rich
coxgressiox|district|of|xeji|jersey|three hundred and forty-three
and|arabl|land|and|is|engag|in|general|farm|his|well|till|field|yield
ing|him|a|golden|tribut|in|return|for|the|care|and|labor|bestow|upon|them
on|the|i6th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|mr|langley|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|ida|a|daughter|of|uriah|turpin|of|williamstown|new|jersey|seven
children|have|been|born|of|their|union|as|follow|samuel|warren|laura
oscar|charl|p|lafayett|and|sophia|the|parent|are|member|of|the
methodist|episcop|church|and|the|famili|is|one|wide|and|favor
known|in|the|communiti
asa|gardin
asa|gardin|is|live|a|retir|life|at|his|pleasant|home|near|pitman
grove|for|mani|year|he|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|in|gloucest
counti|and|have|acquir|a|comfort|compet|he|was|at|length|en
abl|to|lay|asid|the|more|arduous|care|of|busi|life|his|former|talent
have|provid|him|with|the|mean|that|suppli|him|with|all|the|necessi
tie|and|mani|of|the|luxuri|that|go|to|make|exist|pleasur
mr|gardin|was|born|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|on|a|farm|two|mile|from
mullica|hill|his|grandfath|was|jame|gardin|and|his|father|was
amo|gardin|the|latter|was|iwrn|near|the|black|hors|tavern|in|the
vicin|of|mullica|hill|and|becam|a|success|farmer|of|that|section|of|the
counti|he|also|engag|in|schoolteach|and|serv|his|township|as|a
school|truste|take|an|activ|interest|in|the|becaus|of|educ|larg|pro
mote|the|interest|of|the|school|in|his|neighborhood|he|held|member
ship|in|the|societi|of|friend|and|live|an|upright|and|honor|life|worthi
of|the|confid|and|esteem|of|all|his|death|occur|about|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|and|his
wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|she|bore|the|maiden|name|of|anna|daniel|and
was|a|daughter|of|john|daniel|by|her|marriag|she|becam|the|mother|of
nine|children|four|of|whom|are|live|as|follow|maria|the|wife|of|gideon
turner|of|swedesboro|gloucest|counti|asa|amo|who|is|live|in
mullica|hill|and|georg|a|resid|of|westvill|new|jersey
asa|gardin|pursu|his|educ|in|the|common|school|and|at|an
earli|age|began|to|assist|in|the|develop|and|cultiv|of|the|home
farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|he|began|farm|on|his|own|account|near|jefifersonvill
where|he|remain|one|year|after|which|he|remov|to|a|place|between
barnsboro|and|pitman|grove|where|he|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit
through|the|long|period|of|forti|year|his|practic|and|progress|meth
od|were|attend|with|a|gratifi|degre|of|success|and|he|gain|a|hand
some|compet|which|now|enalil|him|to|live|retir|he|at|one|tune
three hundred and forty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
own|the|land|which|is|now|includ|within|alcyon|park|a|pleasur|resort
near|pitman|grove|he|is|still|the|owner|of|a|valuabl|tract|of|one|hundr
and|forti|acr|which|yield|to|him|a|good|incom
mr|gardin|has|been|twice|marri|first|he|wed|louisa|the
daughter|of|eli|heritag|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|their|onli|child|is|also|de
ceas|for|his|second|wife|he|chose|keziah|eastlock|a|daughter|of|jame
eastlock|of|mantua|she|is|still|live|and|has|three|children|sarah|the
wife|of|edward|justic|of|penn|grove|anna|the|wife|of|samuel|l|justic
also|of|penn|grove|and|kate|the|wife|of|josiah|shute|of|pitman|grove
mr|gardin|take|a|deep|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|welfar
of|the|communiti|and|has|efcient|serv|as|a|school|truste|his|life|has
been|an|activ|and|use|one|devot|to|honor|busi|pursuit|and
to|the|faith|perform|of|his|duti|of|citizenship|this|has|made|his
record|a|commend|one|worthi|of|a|place|in|the|histori|of|his|nativ
counti
willlm|k|willlmson
ocean|citi|has|no|more|acti|champion|than|this|gentleman|whose|deep
interest|in|it|welfar|is|manifest|in|his|well|direct|effort|for|it|improv
ment|and|upbuild|he|was|born|in|bloomfield|essex|counti|new|jersey
septemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|is|a|son|of|william|j|and|ami|keen|mlliam
son|the|name|is|of|scotch|origin|and|the|first|progenitor|of|the|famili|in
america|was|william|williamson|who|left|the|land|of|his|nativ|to|seek|a
home|beyond|the|broad|atlant|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|also|bore
the|name|of|william|and|was|born|in|what|was|then|belleill|xew|jersey
a|littl|town|which|now|form|a|part|of|the|citi|of|newark|he|engag|in
quarri|sandston|for|build|purpos|was|also|one|of|the|extens
farmer|in|bloomfield|and|the|famili|homestead|which|he|occupi|had
been|in|possess|of|his|ancestor|for|nearl_|two|hundr|_ear|and|is|yet
own|by|his|descend|he|was|an|honor|countri|gentleman|who|con
troll|extens|properti|interest|and|by|his|upright|life|command|the
respect|of|his|fellow|men|he|serv|his|countri|in|the|war|of|eighteen|twelve|his
wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of|margaret|bowman|and|their|children|were
margaret|eliza|adelin|mrs|maria|bowman|william|j|and|jane|wife
of|thoma|munn|of|orang|new|jersey|all|die|within|six|year|the
youngest|one|be|seventynin|year|of|age|at|the|time|of|his|death|while
the|eldest|was|eightyeight|the|famili|has|ever|been|note|for|longev
although|the|grandfath|die|at|the|age|of|fortyfour|year|his|wife|how
ever|reach|the|advanc|age|of|eightynin|year
cl|ytt
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and forty-five
william|j|williamson|was|ijorn|in|bloonilield|new|jersey|in|icsi2|and
was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|newark|and|in|seymour|academi|he
was|a|countri|gentleman|whose|realest|interest|were|extens|and|who
ad|to|his|properti|by|fortun|specul|through|his|effort|the
agricultur|interest|of|this|communiti|were|larg|promot|he|own
a|larg|farm|near|newark|and|did|much|to|improv|the|grade|of|stock|rais
in|that|section|of|the|state|he|serv|as|a|member|of|the|citi|council|and
of|the|school|board|and|was|a|veri|activ|member|and|worker|in|the|first
presbyterian|church|in|which|he|serv|as|a|deacon|and|a|truste|in|his
famili|were|two|son|and|two|daughter|william|k|margaret|lill|and
elli|n|tlie|last|name|is|connect|with|the|even|post|of|new|york
citi|and|resid|in|bloomfield|new|jersey|the|father|of|this|famili|was
call|to|his|final|rest|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|at|the|age|of|seventynin|year|and|the
mother|pass|away|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|age|of|seventyeight|year
william|k|williamson|have|acquir|his|educ|in|the|common
school|becam|a|student|in|bloomfield|academi|and|later|matricul|in
columbia|colleg|where|on|the|complet|of|the|classic|cours|he|was
graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|two|year|later|he|was|graduat|in|the|columbia|law
school|previous|to|which|time|he|had|read|law|under|the|direct|of|court
land|parker|a|distinguish|legist|of|newark|new|jersey|from|his|ofific
he|was|admit|to|practic|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|for|two|year|was|a|member
of|the|bar|of|newark|dure|that|time|he|act|as|the|counsel|of|bloom
field|township|and|serv|as|a|member|of|the|citi|board|of|aldermen|later
he|becam|connect|with|journalist|interest|in|wilmington|delawar|as
the|citi|editor|of|the|morn|news|in|which|capac|he|serv|for|five
year|he|then|becam|connect|with|the|theatric|busi|as|the|man
ager|of|theater|in|wilmington|delawar|lancast|pennsylvania|albani
new|york|and|in|trenton|new|jersey|he|had|sever|compani|uiion
the|road|and|travel|through|everi|state|and|territori|in|the|ltnion|on
sever|his|connect|with|the|stage|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|came|to|ocean|citi|where
he|had|previous|made|extens|invest|in|real|estat|and|where|he
liad|spent|his|summer|for|some|year|previous|he|has|taken|an|activ
and|import|part|in|the|upbuild|of|the|town|and|has|valuabl|properti
interest|here|and|in|bloomfield|new|jersey|he|doe|all|in|his|power|to
jromot|the|improv|of|ocean|citi|and|withhold|his|support|from|no
movement|or|measur|which|he|believ|will|be|a|public|benefit
on|the|i2th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|mr|williamson|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|roberta|m|stanley|of|south|carolina|and|they|now|have|one|of|the
most|beauti|and|attract|home|in|ocean|citi|occupi|one|of|the|fine
build|site|here|ir|williamson|is|a|member|of|the|imason|fratern
three hundred and forty-six|biograph|historv|of|the|first
and|in|polit|he|is|a|stalwart|republican|lie|recogn|as|a|leader|in
the|rank|of|his|parti|in|cape|may|counti|he|has|serv|as|a|member|and
the|presid|of|the|citi|council|and|his|effort|to|promot|the|welfar|of|the
communita|have|been|verv|effecti|e
gainer|p|moor
the|histori|of|the|communiti|is|best|told|in|the|live|of|it|repres
citizen|for|it|is|to|the|busi|and|execut|abil|of|the|promin|men
of|the|town|to|which|is|attribut|it|progress|along|all|line|of|intel
lectual|moral|and|materi|advanc|no|citi|no|matter|how|great
her|natur|resourc|ever|rose|to|ani|degre|of|prosper|that|did|not|o|e
credit|of|her|possess|to|the|men|within|her|limit|and|their|abil|to|de
velop|these|resourc|and|creat|new|enterpris|to|those|who|have|faith
in|her|futur|and|contribut|toward|her|prosper|by|invest|capit|and
identifi|themselv|in|eeri|ossil|le|manner|with|her|interest|the|que
tion|of|failur|is|not|onli|improb|but|imposs|that|mr|moor|has
ever|believ|in|the|futur|of|ocean|citi|is|demonstr|by|the|fact|that|he
has|been|the|promot|of|mani|of|it|lead|interest|and|it|growth|is
larg|due|to|the|wise|effort|which|he|put|forth|dure|his|servic|of|twelv
year|in|the|mayoralti
he|claim|pennsylvania|as|the|state|of|his|nativ|his|liirth|have|oc
cur|in|chester|counti|on|the|13th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|he|is|a|repres
of|two|old|famili|connect|with|the|societi|of|friend|and|is|a|son|of
william|and|lydia|moor|moor|his|father|was|born|juli|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|in
chester|counti|he|was|a|carpent|and|cooper|by|trade|and|spent|his|en
tire|life|in|the|counti|of|chester|and|lancast|dure|the|war|of|one hundred and eighty-one|two
he|was|draft|for|servic|but|paid|the|redempt|fee|and|remain|with|his
famili|his|religi|belief|was|in|harmoni|with|the|doctrin|of|the|societi
of|friend|and|his|polit|faith|was|with|the|whig|parti|he|marri
lydia|moor|and|to|them|were|born|eight|children|name|georg
jame|samuel|william|wilson|cassandra|jane|and|jiari|the|father|of
these|children|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year|and|the|mother
who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|at|the|age|of|seventysix|year
mr|moor|of|this|review|acquir|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of
chester|counti|and|work|with|his|father|until|nineteen|year|of|age|he
learn|the|carpent|s|trade|at|atglen|and|also|follow|it|to|some|extent
in|calhoun|counti|michigan|dure|the|civil|war|he|offer|his|servic
to|the|govern|but|fail|to|pass|the|physic|examin|be|re
coxgressiox|district|of|xejl|jersey|three hundred and forty-seven
ject|on|account|of|a|slight|lame|when|lee|s|armi|invad|pennsyl
vania|he|offer|his|servic|a|second|time|was|accept|and|went|with|four
compani|of|the|state|militia|to|guard|the|fort|at|peach|bottom|on|the|sus
quehanna|river|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|embark|in|merchandis|at|atglen|chester
counti|where|he|remain|for|seven|year|and|later|resum|work|at|the
carpent|s|trade|and|on|the|14th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|came|to|ocean|citi|where
he|has|sinc|engag|inbusi|as|an|architect|contractor|and|budder|he
erect|a|number|of|the|first|hous|in|the|place|and|has|sinc|put|up|mani
cottag|and|fine|resid|he|is|not|onli|an|expert|builder|but|is|an
architect|as|well|and|therefor|mani|of|the|home|in|this|place|stand|as
monument|to|his|skill|and|enterpris|he|furnish|employ|to|a|larg
forc|of|workmen|sometim|as|mani|as|twentyf|and|has|receiv|a|lib
eral|patronag|he|is|also|engag|in|the|realest|busi|handl
some|valuabl|properti|and|is|the|proprietor|of|greenhous|at|this|place
mr|moor|was|elect|the|first|mayor|of|ocean|citi|and|seven|time
has|been|chosen|to|that|posit|dure|his|servic|mani|import
municip|improv|have|been|made|and|at|all|time|he|has|exercis
his|offici|prerog|to|advanc|the|welfar|of|the|citi|upon|him|and
the|council|fell|the|arduous|labor|of|creat|and|establish|a|borough|gov
ernment|on|the|foundat|of|temper|and|he|has|alway|ad|his|co
oper|to|such|project|as|have|given|promis|of|success|and|which|con
tribut|to|the|advanc|of|the|interest|of|ocean|citi|in|point|of|wealth
popul|and|intellig|dure|his|servic|as|mayor|the|first|railroad
was|complet|to|ocean|citi|it|was|a|spur|of|the|west|jersey|sea
shore|line|extend|from|sea|isl|junction|to|this|place|a|distanc|of|seven
teen|mile|he|grant|the|franchis|for|the|erect|of|the|first|trolley|rail
road|and|while|he|occupi|the|offic|of|mayor|he|gave|his|aid|and|influenc
for|the|establish|of|the|waterwork|the|electriclight|plant|and|the
sewer|system|under|his|administr|much|street|grade|was|done
and|two|board|walk|were|built|along|the|ocean|shore|he|also|establish
the|fire|depart|and|at|the|present|time|he|is|serv|as|a|member|of|the
board|of|educ|have|for|nine|year|been|the|district|clerk|of|the|board
the|public|school|find|in|him|a|warm|friend|whose|interest|are|larg
advanc|through|his|effort|he|is|now|a|justic|of|the|peac|notari|pul
lic|and|commission|of|deed
on|the|3d|of|februari|i863|mr|moor|was|unit|in|marriag|to|har
riet|e|bufifington|and|four|children|have|been|born|to|them|eva|a|teacher
in|the|kindergarten|school|in|new|york|citi|elli|h|a|painter|of|ocean
citv|morri|h|an|electrician|who|marri|lizzi|kate|and|has|two
daughter|etta|and|ruth|and|lari|who|has|success|engag|in|teach
three hundred and forty-eight|biograph|il|histori|one|the|first
ing|for|eight|year|and|is|now|take|a|special|cours|of|studi|in|the|univ
siti|of|pennsyhania|the|famili|attend|the|methodist|episcop|church|of
which|mr|moor|is|a|faith|member|and|offic|serv|on|the|offici
board|at|the|present|time|social|he|is|connect|with|the|junior|order|of
american|mechan|and|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|con
temporari|biograph|has|said|of|him|adher|tenaciouslx|to|his|con
viction|of|what|is|just|and|right|his|popular|has|been|honor|achie
and|is|but|the|logic|outcom|of|conscienti|direct|of|unborn|capabili
tie|to|wise|result
richard|t|s|hth
richard|thompson|smith|of|salem|is|one|of|the|enterpris|and|sub
stantial|farmer|wiio|have|done|much|to|promot|the|welfar|of|the|counti
he|is|a|son|of|powel|and|sarah|elizabeth|elpinton|smith|and|was|born|in
mannington|township|this|count|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|his|grandfath
isaac|smith|and|greatgrandfath|powel|smith|were|also|resid|of|this
township|and|carri|on|farm|the|latter|own|one|hundr|and|seventi
acr|of|land|which|he|cultiat|he|was|a|democrat|and|a|member|of|the
societi|of|friend|two|ciiildren|were|born|to|him|salli|mrs|wood
side|and|isaac|smith|the|latter|continu|to|conduct|farm|oper
in|his|nativ|township|and|laid|up|a|neat|compet|which|enabl|him|to
retir|from|the|arduous|duti|of|farm|life|some|fifteen|year|prior|to|his
death|and|take|up|his|resid|in|salem|like|his|father|he|was|a|demo
crat|and|belong|to|the|societi|of|friend|of|the|salem|meet|he|was
marri|to|margaret|earnest|who|bore|him|seen|children|iz|powel
the|father|of|our|subject|mari|sarah|ann|who|marri|thoma|peterson
a|farmer|by|whom|she|has|two|children|henri|and|margaret|breec
isaac|a|farmer|in|jnlannington|townshi|who|marri|ruth|ann|taylor|and
has|seven|children|jonathan|ennna|anni|curriden|isaac|jr|beulah
ella|ann|who|marri|henri|fox|a|salesman|of|philadelphia|and|has|two
children|luci|power|and|minni|stockwel|tilli|who|marri|henri
collier|an|insur|man|of|philadelphia|and|josiah|who|is|a|poultri|dealer
of|salem|and|who|marri|catherin|lawrenc|and|has|three|children
hannah|salli|and|arthur|the|grandfath|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|at|the|age|of
sixtynin|year|while|the|grandmoth|reach|the|age|of|seventysix|or
seventyseven
powel|smith|was|the|eldest|of|his|father|s|famil|and|grew|to|manhood
in|his|nativ|township|generat|of|the|famili|had|been|wed|to|the
occup|of|farm|and|he|also|turn|his|attent|to|that|pursuit|he
congressioa|district|op|xeil|jersfa|three hundred and forty-nine
was|a|democrat|and|a|memljer|of|the|friend|meet|at|salem|he|was
twice|marri|his|first|wife|sarah|elizabeth|elpinton|be|the|mother|of
six|children|of|whom|our|subject|is|the|eldest|they|are|richard|t|salli
who|marri|albert|risnier|a|farmer|isaac|deceas|anni|who|marri
david|jone|a|farmer|and|has|two|children|henri|and|salli|mari|who
die|young|and|powel|who|die|in|infanc|the|mother|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|at
the|age|of|thirtynin|year|the|second|marriag|to|rebecca|keen
dowl|was|without|issu|the|father|is|now|in|his|seventythird|year|and
is|a|well|preserv|gentleman
richard|thompson|smith|attend|the|pay|school|of|salem|until|he
reach|his|eighteenth|year|when|he|left|school|to|attend|the|duti|on|the
farm|he|remain|with|his|father|until|he|was|twentyseven|year|of|age
when|he|began|farm|for|himself|first|ui|his|nativ|township|and|later|in
lower|peniv|neck|he|continu|this|work|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|he|move
to|salem|and|abandon|farm|to|tri|the|butcher|busi|after|devot
ing|a|short|time|to|this|enterpris|he|onc|more|took|up|farm|in|lower
penn|s|neck|township|where|he|has|a|fine|farm|of|one|hundr|and|forti
eight|acr|besid|other|busi|interest
he|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|to|martha|patterson|who|was|a|daughter|of
martin|patterson|of|lower|penn|s|neck|township|she|die|septeml|eight
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|was|wed|to|his|present|wife|amanda|fox|a
daughter|of|jacob|and|luci|ann|fox|a|farmer|of|lower|penn|s|neck|town
ship|two|children|have|bless|their|union|powel|and|luci|both|at
home|mr|smith|has|twice|repres|the|west|ward|of|the|citi|on|the
democrat|ticket|and|has|alway|work|for|the|public|interest|he|is|one
of|the|strongest|advoc|of|the|much|discuss|filter|for|the|citi|and|push
ani|enterpris|that|will|help|the|general|public|he|was|for|three|year|a
member|of|the|township|committe|and|is|respect|by|all|regardless|of|parti
samuel|g|lefevr
samuel|g|lefevr|who|resid|in|pitman|grove|and|is|engag|in|busi
ness|in|the|termin|market|philadelphia|was|born|in|lancast|counti
pennsylvania|on|the|15th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|his|father|henri|le
fevr|was|a|well|known|locomot|engin|on|the|pennsylvania|railroad
enter|the|servic|of|that|compani|at|the|time|tom|scott|becam|one|of|it
employ|lt|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|when|his|death|occur|mr|lefevr|was|the|oldest
enoin|on|the|road|and|his|long|term|of|servic|stood|in|unmistak|evi
denc|of|his|fidelitv|and|capaliil|his|wife|who|lior|the|maiden|name|of
three hundred and fifty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
han|ah|bauhnan|is|still|live|at|the|ae|of|seventvsix|vear|thev
vere|the|parent|of|fot|chilchen|three|of|whom|are|hvin|naneh|st|ai
eleven|the|wfe|of|you|iham|mcclure|of|pennsylvania|samuel|g|of|this|ske|rh
an|alari|a|mrs|wiihan|bttchanan|a|resid|of|scranton|fn|s
s|g|lefeyr|attend|the|common|school|and|also|pursn|a|co|letat
oms|for|a|tne|he|enter|upon|his|busi|careej|in|p|ide|f
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|mr|lefevr|took|up|his|resid|in|pitman|grove|where|he
has|smce|made|his|home|and|for|the|past|eiht|vear|h|uo
fee|of|the|peac|here|he|has|j|cjro|z
ai|chs|rkt|clerk|and|now|has|charg|of|the|school|of|the|to|n|hip|one
one|lt|o|v|p|pted|and|give|his|support|to|everv|nto|eat
hexri|applegit
the|date|of|his|birth|was|novemb|are|is|n|p
well|known|citizen|of|that|ti|are|i|me|appiegu
c0xgress10x4l|district|of|xeiv|jersey|three hundred and fifty-one
sixteen|he|left|school|and|began|the|life|of|a|sailor|he|hrst|sail|on|a
vessel|that|did|a|coast|trade|and|then|went|upon|the|high|sea|soon|becom
ing|an|experienc|sailor|and|rise|to|the|posit|of|captain|of|a|vessel
he|command|the|ship|that|carri|the|first|cargo|of|cotton|from|xew
orlean|to|havr|franc|after|the|civil|war|and|befor|he|was|in|the|employ
of|the|civil|govern|and|had|some|hairbreadth|escap|and|thrill|ex
perienc|he|carri|coal|to|suppli|farragut|s|fleet|befor|it|enter|mobil
bay|onli|a|few|hour|after|he|had|coal|a|certain|vessel|it|was|sunk|on
mobil|bar|by|a|torpedo|while|at|sea|mr|applegit|s|home|was|at|brook
lyn|new|yoik|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|he|retir|from|the|sea|to|his|old|home|at|bridg
ton|and|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|has|live|on|a|farm|in|salem|counti|but|the|memori
of|those|old|day|on|the|sea|are|a|sourc|of|much|pleasur|to|both|himself
and|friend|who|never|tire|of|hear|him|recal|them
august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|mr|applegit|was|unit|in|the|holi|bond|of|matrimoni
to|miss|mari|v|coomb|a|sister|of|henri|coomb|who|is|repres|in
thise|biograph|work|captain|applegit|and|his|wife|took|up|their|resi
denc|on|the|farm|where|they|now|resid|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|it|contain|two|hundr
and|eightyon|acr|of|fine|land|and|in|addit|he|own|fiftythre|acr
within|the|citi|limit|of|bridgeton|as|a|farmer|he|has|been|veri|success
and|has|laid|up|a|consider|compet|to|take|him|through|life|s|even
hour|with|comfort|and|eas
miss|carolin|g|webb
this|ladi|is|the|fortun|owner|of|a|beauti|countri|home|in|william
town|gloucest|counti|where|she|pass|about|half|of|each|year|here
she|is|surround|with|numer|evid|of|a|refin|tast|and|the|hour
speed|all|too|swift|by|for|she|is|a|great|lover|of|natur|and|take|delight|in
rambl|about|this|beauti|region|she|is|well|and|favor|known|to
the|local|inhabit|and|mani|a|deed|of|time|assist|and|love|sym
pathi|shown|toward|those|in|sick|or|troubl|is|just|laid|at|her|door
dure|the|winter|season|she|make|her|home|in|philadelphia|where|the
oreat|part|of|her|life|has|been|spent|but|she|has|a|special|fond|for|her
pleasant|resid|in|illiamstown
aliss|webb|is|the|onlv|survivor|of|a|famili|which|origin|compris
eight|member|thoma|w|and|susanna|douglass|webb|and|their|six
children|her|patern|ancestor|were|nativ|of|england|and|her|grand
father|william|webb|was|born|in|maryland|and|becam|a|wealthi|planter
ownino|a|number|of|farm|and|slave|and|a|store|at|denton|maryland|he
three hundred and fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
was|a|man|of|influenc|in|his|connnun|everyon|look|to|him|for|advic
and|counsel
thoma|webb|who|was|born|near|denton|on|the|old|plantat
april|lo|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|receiv|special|instruct|from|a|privat|tutor|as|the|pub
lic|school|of|that|earli|day|and|local|were|few|and|poor|conduct|in
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|he|remov|to|philadelphia|on|account|of|his|poor|health|and|later|he
learn|the|druggist|s|busi|follow|that|call|until|his|death|he
was|veni|success|and|enterpris|invest|larg|sum|of|money|in|phil
adelphia|real|estat|from|time|to|time|lay|out|an|addit|to|the|citi|and
in|various|way|final|amass|a|fortun|his|integr|and|justic|were
beyond|question|and|though|he|was|keensight|and|judici|in|busi
affair|he|scorn|anyth|like|overreach|and|his|word|was|consid
as|good|as|his|bond|he|was|well|read|keep|thorough|post|on|the
lead|topic|of|the|day|and|at|all|time|he|was|readi|to|do|all|within|his
power|for|the|promot|of|the|welfar|of|the|public|he|was|summon|to
his|reward|on|the|13th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|love|and|mourn|by|all|who|had
had|the|pleasur|of|his|acquaint|his|widow|who|was|a|daughter|of
john|douglass|surviv|him|a|number|of|year|her|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
her|famili|were|veri|promin|in|philadelphia|and|were|descend|of
nativ|of|scotland|friend|who|came|over|to|america|with|william
penn
randolph|webb|a|son|of|thoma|w|and|susanna|webb|was|born|june
i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|in|the|quaker|citi|where|he|obtain|an|excel|educ|dur
ing|the|progress|of|the|civil|war|his|health|fail|and|it|wa|decid|that|an
outdoor|life|might|prove|of|benefit|to|him|accord|he|remov|to
williamstown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|thenceforth|gave|his|attent|to|the|manag
ment|of|a|fine|homestead|which|he|purchas|this|valuabl|farm|one|of
the|best|in|this|local|compris|about|five|hundr|acr|well|improv
and|suit|to|the|rais|of|a|vari|line|of|crop|for|a|wife|air|welb
chose|miss|ida|c|atkinson|a|daughter|of|edwin|f|atkinson|of|franklin
vill|and|one|child|was|born|to|their|union|mabel|r|now|a|resid|of
philadelphia|mr|webb|whose|health|was|never|of|the|strongest|live|to
enjov|his|pleasant|home|here|for|sever|year|but|while|still|in|the|prime|of
earlv|manhood|he|was|call|upon|to|lay|down|the|burden|of|life|and|to
enter|into|the|heaven|rest|though|more|than|a|decad|has|roll|away
sinc|he|left|these|earth|scene|his|demis|have|occur|februari|i
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|his|memori|is|fresh|and|tender|cherish|in|the|heart|of|his|innum
abl|friend|like|his|father|befor|him|he|was|of|a|kind|sympathet|dis
posit|and|won|the|respect|of|his|acquaint|by|a|thousand|quiet
unassum|deed|of|thought|and|love
cokgressiox|district|of|xelf|jersey|three hundred and fifty-three
adam|hitchxer
adam|hitchner|one|of|the|welltodo|farmer|in|lower|pittsgrov|town
ship|salem|counti|was|born|three|mile|from|where|he|now|live|in|olivet
octob|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|the|son|of|mathia|hitchner|who|was|born|and|rear|in
the|same|section|and|was|a|farmer|by|vocat|he|was|a|member|of|the
olivet|methodist|church|and|a|man|of|great|generos|in|busi|he|was
a|success|man|and|had|three|larg|farm|in|his|day|he|held|most|of|the
local|offic|of|the|township|his|death|took|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|when|he|had
reach|the|age|of|eightysix|year|his|wife|sarah|was|the|daughter|of
adam|hannon|of|deerfield|who|was|of|english|descent|and|possess|a|con
sider|amount|of|wealth|she|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|they|had|thirteen|children
twelv|of|whom|still|surviv|name|mari|the|widow|of|georg|b|cake
of|buena|vista|new|jersey|susan|the|wife|of|samuel|johnson|of|pole|tav
ern|daniel|of|kansa|adam|our|subject|oliv|of|elmer|this|state|ell
well|x|of|philadelphia|elizabeth|the|wife|of|john|s|woodruff|samuel
mathia|and|georg|x|in|indiana|sarah|the|wife|of|jason|homer|of
woodrufif|xew|jersey|jacob|of|elmer|and|william|of|franklinill|also
of|this|state
mr|hitchner|whose|name|head|this|sketch|obtain|a|fair|educ|by
attend|the|common|school|of|his|home|district|and|then|learn|the|car
penter|s|trade|follow|the|same|for|about|nineteen|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|pur
chase|the|farm|he|still|own|contain|sixtysix|acr|where|he|carri|on
general|farm|as|to|local|offic|we|may|state|that|for|a|year|he|serv|as
the|overs|of|the|public|road
xovemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|sarah|e|ellwel|a
daughter|of|jason|ellwel|of|daretown|this|state|and|by|this|union|nine
children|hae|been|born|all|of|whom|are|still|live|name|harri|h
who|is|a|carpent|at|woodburi|marri|marj|mayer|and|has|four|chil
dren|elsi|p|harri|h|vanelda|and|adam|h|laura|the|wife|of|frank
ean|of|pole|tavern|who|has|one|child|name|leola|xorman|a|a
mason|of|elmer|who|marri|elizabeth|henri|and|has|two|daughter
name|maud|and|reba|minni|the|wife|of|peter|miller|of|elmer|has|two
children|loran|and|sadi|h|warren|a|tinner|of|elmer|who|marri
lewi|johnson|and|has|four|children|lyllian|orval|georg|r|and|edith
herbert|m|a|farmer|of|elmer|who|chose|for|his|wife|nna|ellwel|thorn
ton|a|a|railroad|man|resid|at|home|walter|m|also|a|railroad|employ
at|winslow|junction|this|state|and|edna|at|her|parent|home|these
children|are|an|honor|to|their|parent|and|to|the|communiti|in|which|thev
respectiel|resid|have|been|properlv|train|they|go|out|into|life
three hundred and fifty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fit|to|do|the|part|assign|them|by|their|environ|mrs|hitchner|s
parent|who|hved|at|daretown|mani|year|are|both|deceas
willim|m|tomblesox
youilliam|m|tomlileson|freehold|of|wilhamstown|gloucest|counti
new|jersey|was|born|on|the|patern|homestead|at|cross|key|septemb
five|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|and|is|a|son|of|samuel|and|sarah|a|nicholson|tombleson|the
famili|are|of|german|stock|and|the|father|whose|father|was|samuel|was
born|in|franklin|township|and|was|extens|engag|in|the|lumber|and
hoop|busi|ship|larg|quantiti|of|the|latter|articl|to|cuba|he
was|a|larg|landown|and|held|sever|township|offic|be|a|freehold
at|one|time|his|marriag|to|sarah|nicholson|was|honor|by|the|birth|of
three|son|illiam|m|samuel|e|and|joseph|the|last|mention|a|resi
dent|of|ineland|the|father|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|the|mother|was|spare|but|a
few|short|month|until|the|28th|of|the|follow|june|when|she|too|was
laid|to|rest
william|m|tombleson|was|educ|in|the|public|school|and|began|the
task|of|a|wageearn|at|an|earli|age|he|work|at|various|pursuit
farm|team|and|lumber|for|sever|year|and|has|alway|been|re
gard|as|one|of|the|wideawak|hustl|men|of|this|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he
purchas|a|small|farm|of|twentyf|acr|where|he|resid|and|which|is
devot|to|general|farm|he|is|a|democrat|in|polit|and|has|been|the
eftici|road|overs|of|this|township|for|seven|year|past|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|was
elect|a|freehold|he|is|a|member|of|the|improv|order|of|red|men
he|was|marri|may|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|to|miss|mari|e|daughter|of|job|d|eldridg
of|wilhamstown|and|nine|children|have|been|born|to|them|howard|a
resid|of|trenton|william|edgar|bessi|samuel|e|and|joseph|n
twin|both|deceas|eldridg|anni|and|ruth|deceas|all|of|the
surviv|one|except|howard|are|at|home
albert|collin
throughout|his|entir|life|mr|collin|has|been|connect|with|the|agri
cultur|interest|of|gloucest|counti|he|resid|at|cross|key|and|was
horn|on|the|farm|which|he|still|make|his|home|on|the|28th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five
the|public|school|of|the|neighborhood|aftord|him|his|educ|and|his
time|was|pass|amidst|play|and|work|in|the|usual|manner|of|farm|lad|as
soon|as|old|enough|to|handl|the|plow|he|began|to|assist|in|the|work|of|the
coxgressioxil|district|of|nejv|jersey|three hundred and fifty-five
field|and|throughout|his|ijusi|career|he|has|carri|on|farm|be
now|the|owner|of|a|rich|tract|of|land|of|fiftyseven|acr|ke|is|engag|in
general|farm|and|his|well|direct|eftort|are|bring|to|him|credit
success
mr|collin|was|unit|in|marriag|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|to|miss|annabel|endicott|a
daughter|of|nichola|endicott|of|port|repul|lic|atlant|counti|one
child|bless|this|union|name|hansford|g|mr|collin|hold|membership
in|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|also|belong|to|the|grang|he|is
wide|and|favor|known|in|the|communiti|where|he|has|alway|made|his
home|and|has|a|larg|circl|of|warm|friend|here
john|w|tho|lpson
this|gentleman|is|a|promin|repres|of|the|busi|and|polit
interest|of|cape|may|and|possess|that|forc|of|charact|and|individu
worth|that|well|fit|him|for|leadership|in|ani|walk|of|life|mark|enter
prise|and|execut|abil|have|gain|him|a|promin|place|in|busi
circl|and|in|offici|posit|he|has|display|keen|discrimin|com
bine|with|fidel|to|duti
john|west|thompson|was|born|june|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|in|the|citi|of|cape|may
a|son|of|richard|r|and|anna|s|hand|thompson|he|attend|the|pub
lic|school|in|his|nativ|town|until|eighteen|year|of|age|and|then|work
for|eighteen|year|at|the|printer|s|trade|for|one|year|he|had|charg|of|the
public|of|the|inelan|l|independ|and|at|differ|time|has|work
in|philadelphia|in|the|offic|of|spangler|davi|job|printer|also|in|the|of
fice|of|c|s|mcgrath|of|the|cape|may|wave|and|on|the|cape|may|star
call|to|public|offic|he|put|asid|his|journalist|duti|and|has|fill|vari
ous|posit|of|public|trust|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|milil|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|serv|as|the|post
master|of|cape|may|dure|presid|cleveland|s|second|administr
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|was|elect|citi|record|in|which|offic|he|is|now|serv|he
was|appoint|by|the|citi|council|superintend|of|the|waterwork|citi
clerk|and|record|of|l|ond|he|has|ever|discharg|his|duti|in|a|prompt
and|abl|manner|fulli|meet|the|pulil|confid|and|trust|he|has
serv|as|deleg|to|sever|senatori|and|state|convent|and|at|all|time
take|a|deep|and|activ|interest|in|his|5arti|do|all|in|his|oer|to|ro
mote|the|growth|and|insur|the|success|of|the|democracw
ith|one|of|the|lead|busi|interest|of|the|citi|mr|thompson|is
also|connect|be|presid|of|the|cape|may|transport|compani
which|was|organ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|is|the|successor|of|the|cape|may|8z|dela
thirty-five|ilocrlliiicai|histori|one|tllli|1rst
ware|hay|railroad|coinpaiiy|they|own|and|control|the|cape|may|beach
trolley|road|extend|from|sewel|s|point|to|cape|may|point|a|distanc|of
eight|mile|and|carri|half|a|million|eopl|annual|under|the|presi
denci|of|mr|thompson|this|is|prove|a|profit|invest|yield|a
good|return|to|the|stockhold|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|boarrl|of|trade
and|of|the|cape|may|build|loan|associ
in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|mr|thompson|marri|miss|mar|daughter|of|enoch
and|louis|b|shaw|schilling|and|to|them|have|been|born|three|chil
dren|louisa|fanni|and|mari|mr|thompson|is|a|member|of|cape
island|lodg|no|thirty|f|a|m|the|cape|may|ielief|associ|the
improv|order|of|heptasoph|and|the|mason|relief|associ|and|at
tend|the|first|presbyterian|church|his|is|a|well|round|charact|sym
metric|develop|becaus|the|interest|to|which|he|has|given|his|time
and|attent|have|been|vari|ttention|concentr|on|one|thing|alon
bring|an|uneven|develop|but|our|subject|is|one|whose|sympathi|are
broad|and|whose|interest|in|social|religi|polit|and|materi|enter
prise|have|been|manifest|in|his|activ|cooper|therewith|in|busi
he|carri|forward|to|success|complet|whatev|he|undertak|and|is
therefor|one|of|the|prosper|citizen|of|cape|may
robert|s|fogg
among|the|most|import|industri|of|southern|new|jersey|are|the
mani|canning|factori|situat|throughout|salem|and|cumberland|coun
tie|which|furnish|employ|to|hunflr|of|men|women|and|children
and|a|market|to|the|farmer|who|rais|acr|upon|acr|of|tomato|each|year
to|keep|the|factori|run|no|name|has|been|more|close|identifi
with|the|canning|industri|than|that|of|robert|s|fogg|who|in|conjunct
with|lucius|e|flire|own|and|conduct|three|of|the|most|success|plant
in|oper|in|the|state|and|is|one|of|the|best|known|and|most|respectefl
resid|of|salem
the|famili|were|origin|from|lutgland|although|sever|generat|of
them|have|made|their|home|in|this|counti|and|have|figurerl|among|the|promi
nent|and|substanti|resid|his|immedi|ancestor|are|aaron|a|and
mari|sheppard|fogg|to|whom|he|was|born|in|this|counti|on|juli|three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven
the|greatgrandfath|aron|fogg|was|a|farmer|of|lower|alloway|creek
township|and|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|he|marri|hannah|mien
and|rear|a|famili|of|eight|children|name|elisha|david|rebecca
ebenez|sarah|aron|thoma|and|samuel|daid|fogg|the|grandfath
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jllrsev|three hundred and fifty-seven
was|horn|in|lower|alloway|creek|townshij|w|lier|he|grew|to|manhood|and
in|earl|life|leot|his|energi|to|luishandri|on|tlie|old|homestead|in|allo
way|creek|townshij|he|afterward|mo|to|mannington|townshiii|and
later|to|elsinhoro|where|he|resid|at|the|time|of|his|death|he|met|with
considerahl|success|in|his|chosen|occup|he|was|a|reimhlican|in
polit|and|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|he|marri|hannah|hil
dreth|daughter|of|jonathan|hildreth|of|allowax|creek|township|salem
counti|the|fruit|of|this|union|were|lydia|who|marri|jonathan|grier
joseph|aaron|david|and|hannali|and|joanna|who|were|twin|david
fogg|was|permit|to|spend|a|long|life|of|use|befor|he|was|call|to
his|reward|in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|age|eightyf|ear|his|enerali|e|wife
almost|round|out|the|centuri|of|her|life|li|to|the|extrem|age|of
ninetytwo|year
aaron|a|fogg|was|born|march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|in|mlowax|creek|township
and|at|the|age|of|twentytwo|ear|locat|on|a|farm|in|mannington|town
ship|and|becam|a|prosper|farmer|of|that|section|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|move|to
salem|where|he|live|a|retir|life|dure|his|remain|year|he|die|at
the|age|of|seventynin|he|belong|to|the|societi|of|friend|and|was|a
consist|christian|man|he|marri|mari|sheppard|who|bore|him|eight
children|jonathan|h|who|is|a|farmer|of|alannington|township|and|mar
rie|elizabeth|addington|iari|emma|who|marri|casper|istar|for
mer|a|farmer|but|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|a|resid|of|philadelphia|robert|s|our
subject|aar|jn|who|die|in|infanc|aima|f|a|resid|of|salem|haimah
j|who|die|at|the|age|of|twentyeight|vear|david|s|who|marri|carri
m|thompson|and|is|a|farmer|of|mannington|township|and|charl|m|who
is|associ|with|the|kexston|watch|compani|of|fhiladelphia|the
mother|of|these|children|is|still|li|a|widow|now|in|her|sevent|eighth
year
robert|s|fogg|was|educ|at|the|salem|friend|school|and|salem
academi|and|then|went|on|the|homestead|farm|in|mannington|township
where|he|live|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|was|a|method|worker|and|met|with|un
qualifi|success|in|the|field|of|agricultur|where|he|was|recogn|as|a
leader|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|engag|in|the|canning|industri|at|quinton|with|lucius
e|hire|as|a|partner|under|the|firm|name|of|fogg|hire|anil|at|onc
built|up|a|larg|trade|in|their|superior|brand|of|can|tomato|the
firm|was|chang|to|fogg|hire|compani|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|t|t|busi|has
increas|until|it|now|requir|three|factori|to|suppli|the|demand|for|their
good|the|factori|at|quinton|employ|two|hundr|and|tifti|hand|dure
the|canning|season|a|similar|number|is|requir|in|the|factori|at|pennsvill
and|the|factori|purchas|by|them|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|t|hancock|s|bridg|give|em
sse|l|i|i|int|frig|hih|tf|jj|aor|7i|you|ftg|a|a|fc|i
tisr
lunhx|s|iav
t|n|tm|ii
m|2kw|is|atig
coxgressiox|district|of|xeir|jersey|three hundred and fifty-nine
stenoeraph|on|a|philadelphia|paper|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|came|to|llliam5tovn
as|stenograph|to|mr|s|garwood|who|was|the|superintend|of|the|rail
road|compani|he|also|did|work|for|the|glass|work|he|has|been|vari
ousli|employ|by|the|glass|compani|and|is|now|superintend|of|the|com
pani|s|store
in|polit|mr|eaer|is|a|republican|and|none|take|a|liyeli|interest
in|his|parti|s|success|than|doe|he|he|was|member|of|the|school|board|for
four|year|he|is|a|member|of|the|methodist|church|and|has|serv|as|one
of|it|steward|for|seven|year|for|sever|year|he|has|taught|the
young|men|s|bibl|class|besid|have|led|the|choir|ten|year|he|was|one
of|the|seven|charter|member|who|institut|the|mason|lodg|at|illiam
town|and|was|one|of|it|first|offici|look|toward|the|protect|of|his
famili|he|is|a|member|of|the|a|o|you|w|and|junior|order|of|american
mechan|it|should|here|be|ad|that|our|subject|is|the|present|secr
tan|of|the|bodin|glass|compani|in|a|recent|convers|with|him|it
was|learn|that|he|think|the|world|is|do|all|for|him|that|he|desen
he|is|satisfi|and|never|given|to|grumbl
like|most|truli|sensibl|men|our|subject|is|a|marri|man|it|was|oc
tober|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|when|he|marri|sabina|e|spangler|the|daughter|of|mn
and|mrs|mose|spangler|of|berk|pennsylvania|they|are|the|parent|of
five|children|four|of|whom|are|live|elmer|s|elizabeth|r|helen|e
and|john|h
augustus|thi
the|life|record|of|this|gentleman|prove|that|success|may|be|attain|by
well|direct|effort|even|when|fate|has|vouchsaf|no|assist|in|the|way
of|wealth|he|is|now|number|among|the|substanti|citizen|of|the|com
muniti|and|has|arisen|to|this|posit|by|dilig|and|persever|he
own|and|occupi|a|valuabl|farm|of|one|hundr|and|sixti|acr|near|hurff
vill|gloucest|counti|and|the|neat|and|thrifti|appear|of|his|place|well
indic|his|care|supervis
mr|thi|is|a|repres|of|the|teuton|race|his|birth|have|oc
cur|in|bremen|germani|novemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|his|father|henri|was
also|a|nativ|of|that|local|and|carri|the|mail|between|bremen|and|han
over|in|the|earli|day|befor|the|era|of|railroad|transport|he|also
drove|the|stage|between|those|point|and|carri|princ|albert|when|he
went|to|england|to|marn|queen|ictoria|he|alway|spoke|of|the|princ
as|one|of|the|most|pleasant|young|men|he|had|ever|seen|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|he|deter
mine|to|trv|his|fortun|in|america|and|bid|adieu|to|friend|and|nativ
36o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
land|he|sail|for|the|new|world|take|up|his|abod|in|long|island|sub
sequent|he|went|to|philadelphia|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|came|to|camden|near|mexico
there|he|engag|in|farm|and|through|that|occup|support|his
famili|in|his|religi|ijelief|he|was|a|presbyterian|his|death|occur
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|his|wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|they|were|the|parent|of|five
children|two|of|whom|are|yet|live|name|harriet|the|wife|of|charl
ganglebrough|of|philadelphia|and|augustus|of|this|review
the|latter|attend|the|common|school|of|this|countri|be|onli|five
year|of|age|at|the|time|of|the|emigr|of|his|parent|to|america|he
was|a|student|of|bunker|hill|school|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|d|acquir|a|fair|english|edu
cation|which|well|fit|him|for|the|practic|duti|of|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|he|pur
chase|the|farm|upon|which|he|now|resid|a|tract|of|one|hundr|and|sixti
five|acr|this|was|cover|with|timber|which|he|clear|away|haul
the|wood|to|philadelphia|where|it|was|use|for|fuel|as|acr|after|acr|was
place|under|the|plow|the|rich|field|yield|to|him|a|golden|tribut|in|return
for|the|care|and|labor|he|bestow|upon|them|and|today|he|is|the|owner|of
a|veri|valuabl|and|product|farm|he|carri|on|general|farm|and
market|garden|rais|veget|for|the|citi|market
as|a|companion|and|helpmeet|in|life|mr|thi|chose|miss|mari|ann
hann|the|daughter|of|joseph|hann|also|of|bunker|hill|gloucest|counti
their|marriag|take|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|unto|them|have|been|born|nine|chil
dren|seen|of|whom|are|live|as|follow|henri|who|resid|near|his
father|augustus|who|make|his|home|at|bunker|hill|harriet|charl
mari|ann|clarenc|and|william|all|at|home|the|famili|is|well|and|favor
abli|known|in|this|local|and|high|esteem|for|sterl|worth
mr|thi|give|his|polit|support|to|the|democraci|and|his|fellow
townsmen|appreci|his|worth|and|abil|have|frequent|call|him|to
public|offic|he|has|serv|in|a|number|of|the|township|posit|and|for
three|term|has|been|a|freehold|of|gloucest|counti|at|all|time|he|has
been|activ|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|intellectu|materi
and|moral|progress|of|the|communiti
robert|p|thompson
this|gentleman|now|a|resid|of|south|seavill|was|born|in|goshen
march|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|is|a|son|of|nehemiah|and|cynthia|e|stillwel|thomp
son|his|patern|grandfath|was|a|nativ|of|ireland|and|had|three|son
constantin|jame|and|nehemiah|the|last|name|was|born|in|cape|may
counti|new|jersey|octolj|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|spent|his|childhood|and|youth|there
coxgressiox|district|of|nejv|jersey|three hundred and sixty-one
and|learn|the|ship|carpent|s|trade|which|he|fohow|throughout|his|hfe
he|resid|in|goshen|and|was|a|high|respect|citizen|of|that|communiti
he|gave|his|polit|support|first|to|the|whig|and|aftenvard|to|the|republ
can|parti|he|was|marri|april|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|to|miss|cynthia|e|stilhvel
who|was|born|juli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|a|daughter|of|john|stilhvel|who|was|the|cap
tain|of|a|vessel|and|was|lost|at|sea|mr|and|mrs|thompson|becam|the
parent|of|ten|children|robert|p|is|the|eldest|louisa|who|was|born
june|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|was|marri|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|to|hickman|e|foster|who
was|a|motorman|in|earli|life|but|later|success|engag|in|the|lumber
busi|in|decatur|illinoi|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|leav|three|children|ir
etta|crawford|calista|and|kate|wife|of|cador|m|smith|of|birmingham
alabama|john|s|born|decemb|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|marri|rebecca|puce|wil
liam|born|decemb|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|marri|tabitha|scudder|josephin|born
march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|is|the|wife|of|william|norton|who|has|follow|farm
and|contract|in|cape|may|counti|and|in|illinoi|and|missouri|then
children|are|willamett|and|hani|charl|born|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|die|june
sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|sarah|born|juli|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|is|the|wife|of|thoma|peterson|and
their|children|are|georg|and|sarah|richard|born|decemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four
die|septemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|georg|c|born|june|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|is|a|sea|captain|re
side|in|camden|new|jersey|and|marri|sarah|corson|edward|w
born|june|fifteen|one hundred and eighty-five|one|die|in|infanc|the|father|of|these|pass|away|juli
thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year|and|their|mother|was|call|to
her|final|rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy
in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|town|robert|thompson|becam|fami
liar|with|the|common|english|branch|of|learn|and|on|leav|the
schoolroom|went|to|sea|he|was|promot|from|time|to|time|in|recogni
tion|of|his|dilig|and|fidel|becom|a|mate|and|eventu|a|captain
of|vessel|engag|in|the|coast|trade|he|sail|on|the|atlant|between
the|age|of|fifteen|and|twentyseven|year|and|then|learn|the|ship|car
penter|s|trade|which|he|follow|in|goshen|and|dennisvill|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|sub
sequent|he|engag|in|farm|for|three|year|at|south|seavill|where
he|rent|sixti|acr|of|land|and|sinc|that|time|he|has|resid|in|south
seavill|where|he|rent|a|small|farm|and|conduct|a|firstclass|board
hous|receiv|a|liber|patronag
on|the|30th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|mr|thompson|marri|miss|sarah
townsend|a|daughter|of|smith|townsend|they|have|an|adopt|daughter
sarah|who|becam|the|wife|of|newel|sturtev|carson|a|son|of|frederick
corson|and|they|have|two|children|maud|s|and|florenc|b|in|his
polit|view|mr|thompson|is|a|stalwart|republican|and|his|fellow|town
men|appreci|his|worth|and|abil|and|his|devot|to|the|parti|have
three hundred and sixty-two|biograph|histori|op|the|first
elect|liini|to|sever|local|offic|he|has|serv|as|coron|as|justic|of
the|peac|and|has|been|a|truste|of|the|public|school|for|thirti|year|the
becaus|of|educ|find|in|him|a|warm|friend|he|is|a|member|of|the
methodist|episcop|church|at|south|seavill|and|has|held|mani|offic
therein|be|an|exhort|and|classlead|for|the|long|period|of|thirti|year
he|has|also|been|a|truste|and|steward|in|the|church|ami|is|a|most|earnest
worker|in|it|behalf|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|junior|order|of|american
mechan
damd|b|waddingtox
david|bowen|waddington|own|and|conduct|one|of|the|best|meat|mar
ket|in|this|part|of|the|state|at|one hundred and sixty|broadway|salem|he|is|also|a|farmer
of|abil|and|promin|and|enjoy|the|distinct|of|be|strict|upto
date|in|his|method|he|was|born|april|four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|in|elsinlx|ro|township
salem|counti|to|richard|and|mari|ann|bowen|waddington
richard|addington|his|father|was|also|born|in|this|counti|in|octols
one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|was|educ|in|the|district|school|hen|he|reaclietl|manhood
he|engag|in|the|mercantil|busi|for|one|year|at|hancock|s|bridg
later|he|purchas|a|farm|in|elsinloro|township|where|he|spent|the|balanc
of|his|life|in|the|quiet|pursuit|incid|to|countri|life|he|acquir|con
sider|properti|and|at|his|death|was|the|owner|of|three|farm|aggreg
three|hundr|and|fifti|acr|one|farm|is|situat|in|alloway|creek|town
ship|while|two|are|locat|in|elsinboro|and|repres|in|a|measur|his|suc
cess|busi|method|eight|year|befor|his|death|which|occur|in
his|eightythird|year|he|retir|to|salem|where|the|sunset|year|of|his|life
were|pass|in|a|quiet|and|rest|manner|an|end|well|befit|his|long|life
of|activ|he|was|a|strong|adher|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|a|demo
crat|in|his|polit|view|yet|he|was|ever|toler|of|the|view|of|other|and
did|not|endeavor|to|forc|his|opinion|on|them|he|was|in|high|reput|and
was|chosen|to|fill|a|number|of|local|offic|where|his|kind|natur|manifest
itself|in|the|interest|of|those|with|whom|he|had|deal|he|was|twice
marri|his|first|wife|be|mari|ann|bowen|the|mother|of|our|subject
the|other|children|were|edward|who|was|bom|march|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|and|mar
rie|mari|hood|anna|who|was|born|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|marri|illiam
ware|a|retir|farmer|of|salem|by|whom|she|had|two|children|minna
and|richard|lizzi|the|deceas|wife|of|jonathan|fogg|a|farmer|by|whom
she|had|six|children|mari|elmer|roland|hannah|bessi|and|lla
georg|who|was|liorn|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|i|l|l|marri|mari|gaskel|and|has|eight|chil
cosgressios|district|of|sew|jersey|three hundred and sixty-three
dren|adia|marti|may|emma|georg|edward|ella|and|an|infant
mar|who|marri|william|shute|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|and|has
three|children|waher|edward|and|anna|the|children|of|edward|wad
dinon|were|han|anna|deceas|phoeb|who|marri|joseph|english
andha|two|children|edward|and|man|the|mother|of|our|subject|die
in|her|fortvseventh|year
david|b|waddington|attend|the|friend|school|at|salem|until|he
was|twenti|rear|of|age|and|then|assist|his|father|with|the|farm|work
until|his|marriag|when|he|began|farm|for|himself|in|quinton|township
he|remain|in|that|local|for|seven|year|when|he|purchas|a|farm|ot
one|hundr|and|fortythre|acr|in|pile|grove|township|which|he|culti
vate|for|seventeen|vear|at|the|same|time|make|it|his|home|at|that|time
he|came|to|salem|and|bought|his|fine|resid|on|oak|street|and|engag
in|the|meat|busi|much|credit|is|due|him|for|furnish|the|citizen|of
salem|with|meat|of|choic|varieti|and|the|best|possibl|grade|in|order|to
do|thi|he|buv|larg|herd|of|cattl|and|ship|them|to|his|farm|where|they
are|fatten|and|made|readv|for|slaughter|the|butcher|is|done|on|the
farm|and|great|pain|is|taken|to|have|the|meat|in|the|best|possibl|shape
when|it|i|ent|to|his|market|where|three|men|are|constant|employ|to
look|after|the|want|of|his|patron|he|frequent|has|as|mani|as|one|hun
dred|head|of|cattl|on|his|place|as|he|keep|about|forti|cow|and|often|fat
ten|sixti|steer|at|a|time|that|his|market|is|a|favorit|buy|place|with
the|re|ident|is|shown|bv|the|lucrat|and|extend|trade|which|he|enjoy
he|is|assist|in|this|work|by|his|son|and|the|slaughter|is|done|week
he|still|maintain|a|strict|surveil|of|his|farm|of|which|he|own|two
one|at|pile|grove|and|the|old|homestead|farm|of|one|hundr|and|twenti
acr|in|elsinboro|township|and|rais|princip|hay|and|grass|much|of
which|is|fed|to|his|stock|of|which|he|also|rais|larg|herd
he|is|a|democrat|and|firm|in|support|of|his|convict|a|right|which
he|freeh|accord|to|all|his|life|has|been|too|fulli|occupi|with|his|busi
ness|to|admit|of|polit|intrigu|even|had|his|aspir|been|in|that
direct|he|was|marri|march|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|to|margaret|stretch|of|qouc
ter|counti|this|state|three|children|have|bless|their|union|luci|who
marri|richard|layton|a|farmer|on|the|pile|grove|farm|and|has|two
children|lice|and|r|kirbi|richard|who|marri|mar|atkinson|is|a
farmer|on|the|elsinboro|farm|and|has|one|child|iargaret|and|fanni|who
diea|at|the|age|of|eight|month|mrs|waddington|depart|this|life|sep
tember|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|at|the|age|of|fiftjeight|year|and|her|death|was|deenv
deplor|by|a|wide|circl|who|knew|and|appreci|her|worth
three hundred and sixty-four|biograph|histori|one|the|tirst
reubex|w|ryan
it|is|the|glori|of|our|american|republ|that|the|field|of|o|portun
is|not|limit|that|indiidu|find|scope|for|develop|and|that|enter
prise|may|rise|abov|environ|and|overthrow|the|obstacl|that|block
the|path|to|success|the|major|of|men|who|are|today|the|leader|in|the
commerci|and|profession|life|of|thrive|communiti|are|those|who
have|risen|by|their|own|unaid|eflfort|and|of|this|class|ir|ryan|is|a|repr
sentat|at|the|age|of|fourteen|he|start|out|upon|an|independ|busi
ness|career|secur|a|humbl|clerkship|and|today|he|occupi|a|promin
posit|in|commerci|circl|be|the|roprietor|of|one|of|the|finest|gen
eral|store|on|the|atlant|coast
a|nativ|of|pennsylvania|he|was|born|near|churclnill|buck|c|unt
that|state|februari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|his|jjarent|lie|edward|if|and|florenc
l|koon|ryan|his|patern|grandfath|william|r_an|resid|near
churchvill|and|follow|ed|the|occup|of|farm|own|a|larg
tract|of|land|in|that|localit|he|also|engag|in|haul|produc|from|his
neighborhood|to|the|citi|of|philadelphia|on|commiss|prior|to|the|war
he|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|democraci|but|after|the|south|attempt
to|overthrow|the|union|he|stood|one|y|the|parti|that|was|the|main|defens|of
the|star|and|stripe|and|stanch|advoc|republican|principl|until|his
death|in|his|religi|faith|he|was|a|presbyterian|he|marri|elizabeth
van|horn|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|they|becam|the|parent
of|three|children|alarv|ellen|wife|of|illiam|levi|edward|h|and
hannah|the|wife|of|jess|hart|both|the|grandfath|and|the|grandmoth
of|our|subject|die|when|seventysix|year|of|age
edward|h|ryan|was|born|in|a|log|cabin|in|buck|counti|peiuisylvania
decemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|was|educ|in|the|common|school|in|earli|life
he|engag|in|farm|and|in|the|commiss|lousi|and|later|was|the
proprietor|of|a|flour|and|feed|store|in|philadelphia|where|he|carri|on
oper|at|the|corner|of|frankford|road|and|adam|street|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
he|marri|miss|florenc|l|koon|and|they|have|two|children|reuben
w|and|delia|the|latter|the|wife|of|illiam|s|mellon|a|china|decor
resid|in|philadelphia|in|his|polit|view|mr|ryan|is|a|stanch|repub
lican|and|serv|on|a|number|of|committe|do|all|in|his|power|to|pro
mote|the|growth|and|insur|the|success|of|his|parti|dure|the|civil|war
he|enlist|for|the|servic|but|hostil|ceas|befor|he|was|sent|to|the|field
he|attend|the|friend|meet|and|was|a|man|whom|to|know|was|to
respect|and|honor
reuben|warford|ryan|pursu|his|educ|in|the|ul|lic|school|of
congress|ox|al|district|of|neir|jersey|c|s
philadelphia|until|fourteen|year|of|age|when|he|began|clerk|in|a|store
in|which|capac|he|was|employ|until|embark|in|busmess|on|his|own
account|as|a|dealer|in|groceri|at|the|corner|of|frankford|road|and|adam
street|on|the|12th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|came|to|wildwood|and|establish
his|present|general|mercantil|busi|he|has|built|up|a|veri|larg|trade
two|wagon|be|requir|to|deliv|the|good|his|sale|amount|annual
to|thirtvfiv|thousand|dollar|and|he|occupi|a|store|room|fortyeight|by
fortveight|feet|with|an|addit|fort|by|sixti|feet|he|also|has|a|store
room|eighteen|bv|thirti|feet|which|he|rent|he|deal|in|general|merchan
dise|and|dure|the|summer|season|control|one|of|the|largest|trade|m
southern|new|jersey|he|make|a|specialti|of|handl|fne|china|and|his
import|souvenir|and|china|store|adjoin|his|mammoth|bazaar|embrac
the|handsomest|ware|from|japan|china|and|austria|much|of|which|is|pre
pare|to|order|for|mr|ryan|his|store|is|built|in|handsom|gothic|style
of|architectur|and|the|intern|arrang|is|most|conveni|tast|and
artist
on|the|one|2th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|mr|ryan|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
henrietta|sauerton|of|rancoca|new|jersey|and|they|have|three|children
norman|w|alta|and|william|kenneth|the|parent|occupi|a|promi
nent|posit|in|social|circl|and|their|circl|of|friend|is|extens|mr
ryan|is|regard|as|one|of|the|most|success|busi|men|of|wildwood
and|his|prosper|is|the|merit|reward|of|his|own|labor|for|from|a|humbl
clerkship|he|has|work|his|way|steadili|upward|to|a|posit|of|affluenc
thorough|progress|and|enterpris|he|is|an|import|factor|in|the
upbuild|and|progress|of|wildwood|and|own|consider|real|estat|in
this|placeand|in|holli|beach|he|serv|as|the|postmast|of|wildwood
from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|has|serv|as|a|deleg|to|congression|and
counti|convent|be|one|of|the|ardent|support|of|the|republican
parti|he|has|also|been|a|member|of|the|villag|council|and|exercis|his
offici|prerog|to|advanc|the|welfar|and|upbuild|of|the|place
social|he|is|connect|with|cape|island|lodg|no|thirty-five|f|a|m|and
with|the|roval|arcanum|his|mark|enterpris|his|fidel|to|his|duti|of
citizenship|his|superior|busi|abil|and|his|social|promin|all|entitl
him|to|represent|among|the|lead|citizen|of|cape|may|counti
illlm|b|newivlrk
the|newkirk|famili|is|one|that|for|sever|generat|has|resid|in|the
vicin|of|elmer|new|jersey|and|been|identifi|with|the|agricultur|inter
est|of|salem|counti|a|repres|of|this|famili|is|found|in|wilham|b
three hundred and sixty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
xewkirk|a|prosper|and|high|respecteil|farmer|who|own|and|occupi
a|pleasant|rural|home|near|elmer
william|b|newkirk|was|born|not|far|from|the|place|where|he|now|live
xovemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|a|son|of|charl|f|and|grandson|of|clement|xewkirk
both|nativ|of|this|local|cornelius|xewkirk|the|greatgrandfath|of
william|b|was|among|the|earli|settler|of|this|place|all|were|prosper
farmer|charl|f|newkirk|held|some|township|offic|and|was|promi
nentli|identifi|with|friendship|methodist|episcop|church|in|which|he
occupi|offici|posit|includ|for|year|that|of|sundayschool|superin
tendent|he|was|success|in|the|manag|of|his|farm|and|was|look
upon|as|one|of|the|repres|farmer|and|esteem|citizen|of|this|part|of
the|counti|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|his|widow|whose|maiden|name|was|lydia
benelsbeck|is|still|live|they|were|the|parent|of|six|children|four|of
whom|are|now|live|tamson|wife|of|william|bishop|martha|wife|of
william|strong|william|b|whose|name|introduc|this|sketch|and|elverta
wife|of|albert|coomb|all|resid|in|the|vicin|of|elmer
william|b|xewkirk|was|rear|on|his|father|s|farm|and|receiv|his
educ|in|the|common|school|and|in|a|quaker|school|at|aoodstown
new|jersey|when|he|start|in|life|on|his|own|occount|it|was|to|engag
in|the|occup|which|as|alreadi|state|his|forefath|had|follow|for
generat|he|took|up|his|resid|on|his|present|farm|one|hundr|and
twelv|acr|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|rent|it|for|six|year|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|then|purchas
the|properti|he|carri|on|diversifi|farm|and|has|been|uniform|suc
cess|in|his|oper|continu|in|the|religi|faith|in|which|he|was
rear|mr|newkirk|is|identifi|with|the|methodist|episcop|church
he|was|marri|januari|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|to|miss|rayella|over|daugh
ter|of|william|over|of|elmer|and|they|have|three|children|helen|iva
and|margaret
charl|e|collin
among|those|who|devot|their|energi|to|farm|in|gloucest|counti
is|the|gentleman|whose|name|head|this|sketch|he|was|born|on|the|farm
where|he|still|resid|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|his|father|elijah|collin|was|also
a|nativ|of|this|local|and|was|the|son|of|william|collin|he|devot|his
energi|to|the|work|of|the|farm|and|by|his|well|direct|efyort|and|capabl
manag|he|acquir|a|comfort|compet|and|left|to|his|famili
a|good|estat|he|marri|patienc|peas|a|daughter|of|john|peas|of
gloucest|counti|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|eight|children|three|of
whom|are|live|as|follow|william|a|resid|of|oodbur|and|the
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and sixty-seven|_
present|sheriff|of|gloucest|counti|charl|e|of|this|review|and|albert
who|is|live|in|the|neighborhood|their|father|was|a|member|of|the|meth
odist|episcop|church|and|sere|as|steward|he|was|call|to|his|final
rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|but|his|wife|is|still|live|and|has|attain|the|advanc|age|of
seventyeight
charl|e|collin|attend|the|common|school|but|in|earli|youth|put
asid|his|textbook|to|assist|in|the|labor|of|the|farm|he|is|now|the|owner
of|fiftyseven|acr|of|the|old|homestead|which|has|been|in|his|possess|for
fifteen|year|he|follow|progress|method|of|farm|and|his|dilig
and|enterpris|bring|to|him|a|good|incom
in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|collin|and|miss
xelli|eldredg|a|daughter|of|obadiah|eldredg|a|resid|of|cross|key
they|have|three|children|all|son|georg|radford|and|clarenc|the
famili|attend|the|methodist|episcop|church|of|which|ir|collin|is|a
member|he|also|belong|to|the|junior|order|of|american|mechan|and
hold|membership|in|the|grang|he|has|serv|as|a|school|truste|and|has
taken|a|deep|interest|in|all|that|pertain|to|the|welfar|and|progress|of|this
communitv
robert|c|clark
robert|c|clark|one|of|the|enterpris|merchant|of|hurffvill|xew
jersey|is|a|nativ|of|glassboro|this|state|born|januari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|he|work
as|did|most|of|the|lad|of|that|day|and|had|onli|the|commonschool|advan
tage|he|farm|until|he|was|about|twentysix|year|of|age|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he
purchas|the|store|he|now|conduct|he|has|serv|the|peopl|of|his|com
muniti|as|their|oblig|postmast|for|a|good|period|first|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|next
under|arthur|and|harrison|and|now|under|presid|mckinley|for|a
time|he|was|a|director|in|the|first|nation|bank|at|glassboro|polit|he
is|an|ardent|support|of|the|republican|parti|and|has|held|his|share|of
local|offic|includ|school|truste|and|was|district|clerk|for|nine|year
from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|to|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|was|a|freehold|he|is|the|man|respons|for|the
improv|condit|of|the|road|in|his|section|as|he|was|a|hard|worker
when|a|freehold
he|is|an|activ|member|of|the|methodist|church|and|belong|to|the
knight|of|pythia|mystic|chain|golden|eagl|and|junior|order|of
american|mechan
he|was|marri|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|to|hannah|pricket|the|daughter|of|s
o|pricket|of|hurffvill|their|children|are|byron|s|and|xetti|b
relat|to|our|subject|s|parent|ancestri|etc|it|may|be|here|state
three hundred and sixty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
that|his|father|whose|name|was|benjamin|clark|was|born|near|oodstown
new|jersey|his|father|also|was|name|benjamin|and|he|was|a|nativ|of
the|same|section|of|the|state|his|father|was|isaac|who|emigr|from
england|this|person|was|onr|subject|s|greatgrandfath|and|he|was|a|son
of|lord|luca|clark|spell|with|an|e|our|subject|s|father|benjamin
clark|was|a|tiller|of|the|soil|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|at|mullica|hill|he|was|identi
fie|with|the|methodist|church|was|a|member|of|that|bodi|mani|year|and
serv|as|a|steward|and|truste|he|also|belong|to|the|order|of|knight
of|pythia|he|was|a|success|farmer|and|an|excel|type|of|manhood
he|marri|mari|the|daughter|of|samuel|sharp|he|was|a|promi
nent|citizen|of|franklin|township|gloucest|counti|our|subject|s|mother
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|of|their|twelv|children|six|are|live|elizabeth|zebulon
john|d|richwood|new|jersey|abigail|the|wife|of|hiram|madara|of
camden|allen|s|ewingvill|new|jersey|our|subject|and|r|j|of|winona
joseph|t|sickler
the|name|which|introduc|this|review|is|one|which|is|familiar|to|the
resid|of|southern|new|jersey|for|through|mani|generat|representa
tive|of|the|sickler|famili|have|resid|in|gloucest|counti|the|subject
of|this|reiew|is|one|of|the|lead|attorney|in|gloucest|counti|and|is|a
recogn|leader|of|public|thought|and|opinion|his|influenc|in|the|affair
of|this|section|of|the|state|has|been|most|mark|and|his|efifort|have|led|to
advanc|along|social|educ|moral|and|materi|line|fit|by
nativ|courag|and|intellectu|abil|to|direct|afyair|and|to|assum|respon
sibil|he|has|steadili|won|his|way|to|a|posit|of|emin|among|the|rep
resent|men|of|new|jersey
mr|sickler|was|born|april|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|in|mantua|gloucest|counti|and
is|of|german|lineag|at|an|earli|period|in|the|develop|of|the|state
joshua|sickler|took|up|his|abod|at|chew|s|land|now|camden|new
jersev|and|l|ecam|the|founder|of|the|famili|in|this|section|of|the|countri
the|year|of|his|arriv|was|probabl|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|christoph|sickler|the|great
grandfath|of|our|subject|was|born|at|chew|s|land|and|rear|six|chil
dren|name|elizabeth|john|r|jason|joshua|rebecca|and|mari
throughout|the|long|year|which|have|been|ad|to|the|cycl|of|etern
sinc|joshua|sickler|establish|his|home|at|chew|s|land|representa
tive|of|the|famili|have|been|promin|in|the|affair|which|have|gone|to
make|up|the|histori|of|the|state|and|in|various|depart|of|life|have|at
tain|to|emin|posit|dr|john|r|sickler|the|father|of|our|subject
c0xgressi0y4l|district|of|nelf|jersey|g
was|one|of|the|most|distinguish|physician|and|jurist|that|claim|glouc
joseph|t|sickler|pursu|his|ehic|iu|the|puhhc|school|and|deter
d|ir|o|rt|t|are
e|a|leadmg|attorney|of|mullica|hill|and|also|in
he|ofhc|of|jame|moon|a|practition|at|the|bar|of|woodbnn|in|eight hundred and seventy-four
he|was|admt|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|at|law|and|solicitor|chancerv
tion|th|judg|clymer|but|mamtain|his|home|in|clarksboro|he|has
nade|a|specalti|of|corpor|law|and|is|regard|as|th|leader|mth
branch|of|junsprud|in|gloucest|counti|as|an|atto|ne|b|i
ceamind|and|well|train|the|hmitatl|i|h|p|h
constuu|on|on|feder|power|are|well|understood|in|imn|wththe|lot
hne|of|decis|from|marshal|down|by|which|the|constitut|n
expound|he|is|familiar|as|are|a|thorougl|one|sk|led|ltm|h|st
home|n|all|depart|of|law|from|the|mntutia|m|a|i|to|the|ie|te
x|rv|r|ytrr|f
nent|thorough|in|anet|fr|h|ofh|one
a|man|of|resourc|busi|abil|mr|sirllf|i|c
effort|alon|to|his|profession|duti|nu|as|t|el|one
mani|other|busi|affair|wblh|one|een|actnel|concern|m
ea|e|sa|a|e|pa|a|z|h|t
have|been|disceniinelv|direct|alono|ri|his|effort
a|p|aee|t|es|ece|j|f|z7
three hundred and seventy|biograph|histori|of|the|first
on|the|th|of|septeml|er|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|mr|sickler|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|luci|g|gill|a|daughter|of|judg|david|b|gill|who|was|for|mani
year|account|one|of|the|lead|men|of|this|local|his|father|matthew
gill|was|at|an|earli|day|a|success|and|promin|merchant|at|clarksboro
and|was|descend|from|the|clark|famili|in|whose|honor|the|town|was
name|judg|gill|was|born|in|one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|in|clarksl|oro|his
nativ|town|he|was|a|veri|progress|man|and|was|one|of|the|builder
of|the|west|jersey|delawar|railroad|he|recogn|the|valu|of|secur
ing|rapid|transit|and|excel|mean|of|transport|and|believ|that
railroad|build|was|a|profit|invest|he|promot|his|own|success
while|at|the|same|time|he|advanc|public|prosper|through|railroad|con
struction|he|was|a|director|of|the|old|camden|amboy|railroad|and
was|well|known|in|railroad|circl|dure|the|period|of|the|rebellion|he|held
the|import|offic|of|sheriff|of|gloucest|counti|and|later|he|was|ap
point|judg|by|the|joint|assembl|of|the|state|legislatur|for|one|term|in
polit|he|was|a|stanch|republican|unswerv|in|his|advocaci|of|the|prin
cipl|of|the|parti|he|marri|sarah|hendri|of|marietta|ohio|and|to
them|were|born|two|children|franci|wood|a|resid|of|topeka|kansa
and|luci|g|the|wife|of|joseph|t|sickler|the|mother|is|still|live|her
home|be|in|clarksboro
mr|sickler|is|also|promin|in|polit|circl|but|his|view|are|in|ac
cord|with|democrat|principl|his|close|studi|of|the|question|of|the
day|enabl|him|to|give|an|intellig|support|to|the|parti|of|his|choic|and
to|uphold|his|posit|by|strong|argument|he|has|been|an|activ|factor
in|mani|campaign|congression|district|and|state|hen|hard|more
than|a|boy|he|was|the|overs|of|the|poor|in|mantua|township|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six
he|was|a|candid|for|sheriff|on|the|democrat|ticket|he|ran|seven|hun
dred|and|thirtyf|vote|ahead|of|his|ticket|but|could|not|overcom|the|veri
strong|republican|major|which|is|alway|to|be|found|in|gloucest|counti
for|mani|year|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|democrat|township|committe
and|is|one|of|the|advis|committe|and|the|ice|chairman|to|the|demo
cratic|counti|committe|his|labor|in|lehalf|of|democraci|have|been|tmtir
ing|and|effect|he|is|publicspirit|in|an|emin|degre|nation
progress|and|local|advanc|are|caus|both|dear|to|his|heart|and|he|is
ever|true|and|faith|to|his|duti|of|citizenship|social|mr|sickler|is|a
member|of|the|mason|lodg|of|mantua|the|improv|order|of|red|men
the|knight|of|pythia|fratern|and|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow
of|clarksboro|courteous|genial|well|inform|alert|and|enterpris|he
stand|todav|one|of|the|lead|and|repres|men|of|his|state|a|man
who|is|a|power|in|his|conmiun
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and seventy-one
john|oneil
tohn|oxeil|is|one|of|the|conspicu|citizen|of|xewfield|not|alon|le
becaus|he|is|the|proprietor|of|the|well|known|rug|factori|locat|at|that|point
but|also|for|his|mani|amiabl|characterist|and|sterl|worth|he|was
born|in|the|citv|of|philadelphia|on|christma|day|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and|is|a|son|of
john|oneil|a|nativ|of|ireland|who|came|to|the|unit|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six
when|a|voung|man|he|was|a|mason|by|trade|and|follow|that|busi|in
philadelphia|where|he|made|his|home|he|was|industri|and|thrifti|and
accumul|a|suffici|compet|to|allow|him|to|spend|the|even|of
life|in|comfort|and|leav|a|nucleus|of|world|comfort|for|his|children|he
was|a|devout|cathol|and|a|man|of|temper|habit|a|fact|that|no|doubt
had|much|to|do|with|the|extrem|longev|of|his|life|he|die|in|septem
ber|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|after|round|out|nineti|year|of|life|he|chose|as|the|sharer|of
his|joy|and|sorrow|miss|anni|guckin|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|after|have|had
in|the|cours|of|life|nine|children|five|of|whom|are|now|li|iz|eliza
the|widow|of|samuel|parnel|of|philadelphia|mari|ann|mrs|m|p|hani
gan|of|the|same|citi|maggi|the|widow|of|thoma|down|also|of|phila
delphia|ellen|who|is|a|spinster|and|john|the|subject|of|this|biographi
john|oneil|attend|the|harrison|grammar|school|of|his|nativ|citi
dure|his|tender|year|and|at|the|age|of|twelv|began|work|in|a|carpet|mill
his|first|employ|be|that|of|wind|bobbin|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four
when|he|was|fourteen|he|secur|a|place|under|the|govern|in|the|quar
termast|s|depart|where|he|remain|fourteen|month|the|war|over
he|went|back|to|his|old|trade|of|wea|and|continu|in|it|mani|year
learn|the|minutest|detail|of|the|busi|and|lay|the|foundat|of
that|success|which|has|attend|his|efiort|sinc|commenc|an|independ
busi|for|himself|his|first|ventur|was|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|in|philadelphia|when
he|began|the|manufactur|of|rug|five|year|later|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|in|compani
with|jame|c|morrow|of|delawar|he|equip|the|factori|of|the|smyrna
rug|compani|of|newfield|and|has|work|up|a|splendid|busi|here|they
make|all|size|of|rug|and|ship|their|product|to|all|part|of|the|countrv|meet
ing|with|a|readi|market|they|have|one|hundr|hand|constant|employ
and|have|an|annual|incom|of|one|hundr|thousand|dollar|from|the|sale
of|their|good|the|busi|has|assum|such|iroport|that|it|has|been
found|necessari|to|enlarg|the|plant|and|this|they|are|now|do|it|is
such|men|as|mr|oneil|that|make|a|town|men|who|are|full|of|push|and
vim|he|has|work|his|own|way|from|the|lowest|osit|in|tlie|line|and|is
deserv|of|credit|for|the|perseer|with|which|he|stuck|to|the
ij2|biograph|histori|of|the|first
busi|he|is|a|typic|selfmad|man|anrl|his|life|is|well|worthi|of|emula
tion
on|decemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|s|join|in|the|holi|bond|of|wedlock|with
miss|margaret|wood|a|daughter|of|henri|wood|of|philadelphia|seven
children|have|honor|this|marriag|five|of|whom|still|suri|thev|are
elizaleth|agn|regina|mari|and|margrett|they|are|all|unmarri|ex
cept|elizabeth|w|ho|is|the|w|ife|of|frank|eather|jy
jame|c|jone
when|by|nativ|forc|of|charact|a|man|achiev|success|in|spite|of
circumst|and|obstacl|difficult|to|overcom|more|credit|is|given|to
him|by|the|peopl|of|this|democrat|countri|than|if|he|was|the|inheritor
of|vast|wealth|or|titl|and|this|is|one|of|our|proudest|boast|when|more
over|a|citizen|give|eidenc|that|he|is|not|selfcent|but|hold|his|duti
to|his|countri|and|the|public|of|paramount|import|ad|glori|should
be|his|and|his|exampl|is|worthv|of|emul
in|trace|the|histori|of|j|c|jone|an|industri|unassum|citizen
of|franklin|township|gloucest|counti|it|is|seen|that|lie|is|a|selfmad
man|and|a|true|patriot|his|fatlier|samuel|jone|was|born|near|centerton
salem|counti|new|jersey|and|depart|this|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|he|was|an|agri
culturist|own|a|small|farm|and|was|an|honest|godfear|man|re
spect|and|love|by|all|he|was|a|member|of|the|methodist|episcop
church|and|gave|all|that|he|could|to|the|becaus|of|christ|he|marri|chris
tiana|kandl|a|daughter|of|john|kandl|of|salem|counti|but|death|took
her|from|his|home|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight
r|f|the|eight|children|born|to|this|worthi|cou|le|j|c|jone|is|the|onli
survivor|he|was|born|in|salem|comiti|on|a|farm|near|mullica|hill|janu
ari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|as|his|mother|die|when|he|was|a|lad|of|ten|year|he|went
to|live|with|his|uncl|henri|w|hose|home|was|near|willow|grove|cumber
land|counti|when|the|youth|was|nineteen|year|of|age|he|went|to|mullica
hill|and|for|a|few|year|thereaft|he|was|employ|upon|farm|in|that
vicin|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|enlist|in|compani|i|twentyfourth
new|jersey|volunt|at|the|lake|and|for|the|ensu|ten|month|was|en
gage|in|activ|servic|in|the|union|armi|dure|that|period|take|part|in
the|battl|of|chancellorsvill|and|other|of|less|import|return|home
he|resum|his|interrupt|duti|and|sinc|that|time|has|been|activ
interest|in|the|cultiv|and|improv|of|his|farm|which|compris
one|hundr|and|seventv|acr|he|has|been|honor|with|sever|local
congressiox|district|of|nejl|jersey|three hundred and seventy-three
public|offic|of|trust|and|respons|and|has|been|a|classlead|truste
and|steward|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|at|the|lake|his|marriag
to|mrs|jniargaret|down|was|celebr|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|of|their|two|chil
dren|one|is|deceas|and|the|other|jame|w|resid|near|the|old|home
stead|belong|to|our|subject
jame|coxov|m|d
to|minist|to|the|sick|and|suffer|to|carri|cheer|sympathi|and|aid
to|those|in|pain|and|afifiict|can|a|nobler|field|of|use|lie|found
perhap|no|one|can|quit|frll|the|place|of|the|christian|physician|as|he
goe|from|hous|to|hous|in|a|communiti|carri|with|him|an|atmospher
of|strength|vital|and|hope|one|of|the|love|and|esteem|physician|of
salem|counti|is|the|gentleman|whose|name|head|this|sketch|a|alu
member|of|the|medic|profess|of|this|section|of|the|state
the|conov|familv|origin|in|holland|sever|generat|ago|and
the|sterl|qualiti|for|w|hich|the|peopl|of|that|countri|are|note|are|to|be
found|in|those|bear|the|name|today|two|brother|found|the|famili|on
the|hospit|shore|of|the|xew|world|one|make|a|perman|settlement
on|manhattan|island|and|the|other|locat|in|new|jersey|elisha|conov
a|son|of|john|conov|the|doctor|s|father|was|born|in|this|state|and|for|a
livelihood|made|agricultur|his|chief|busi|for|a|period|in|his|earlv|life
he|was|success|engag|in|teach|and|from|the|time|that|he|arriv
at|man|s|estat|until|his|death|juli|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was|an|activ|and|valu
member|of|the|methodist|church|sere|as|a|classlead|and|as|one|of|the
offici|board|of|the|congreg|with|which|his|lot|was|cast|he|attain
the|ripe|age|of|eightyfour|year|and|his|widow|who|is|still|live|is|now|in
her|seventyeighth|year|her|maiden|name|was|eliza|an|leter|lier|father
be|jame|van|meter|of|one|of|the|old|respect|famili|of|xew|jersey
of|hollanddutch|extract
dr|j|v|conov|who|was|l|orn|juli|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|in|the|ident|hous|in
the|villag|near|woodstown|salem|counti|in|which|his|father|s|birth|had
occur|more|than|twoscor|year|previous|is|one|of|the|seven|children
born|to|elisha|and|eliza|conov|the|eldest|lovisa|is|the|wife|of|charl
huff|of|harrisonvill|gloucest|counti|howard|j|is|a|minist|in|the
methodist|denomin|at|present|locat|at|mullica|hill|gloucest
counti|and|samuel|is|engag|in|farm|in|the|vicin|of|harrisonvill
xew|jersey|professor|elisha|conov|the|youngest|son|is|a|lead|edu
cator|a|man|of|superior|attain|and|l|ri|iant|prospect|he|is|a|grad
three hundred and seventy-four|biugrafh|histori|of|tiiil|first
uat|of|dickinson|colleg|and|now|occupi|the|chair|of|latin|and|greek
at|the|delawar|univers|at|newark|delawar|vnna|the|youngest|sur
ive|daughter|is|the|wife|of|c|c|avi|of|woodstown|new|jersey
the|advantag|of|a|liber|educ|fell|to|dr|conov|in|his|youth
his|higher|studi|be|pursu|in|the|seminari|at|pennington|new|jersew
after|attend|that|well|known|institut|of|learn|for|two|year|he
turn|his|attent|to|the|subject|of|medicin|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|was|graduat
in|the|eclect|medic|institut|at|cincinnati|ohio|subsequ|he|re
turn|to|this|his|nati|e|state|and|engag|in|the|practic|of|his|chosen
ocat|for|two|year|after|which|he|went|to|the|west|there|he|remain
for|some|time|gain|the|experi|which|he|desir|in|his|work|and|at
the|same|time|benefit|himself|by|meet|with|the|vari|class|of|peopl
found|in|the|west|and|have|his|mind|broaden|and|strengthen|by|travel
and|associ|with|natur|in|all|her|phase|return|home|in|septemb
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|establish|himself|in|practic|in|elmer|salem|counti|where|he
has|built|up|a|larg|and|lucrat|patronag|when|in|the|west|he|serv
for|some|time|as|a|pension|examin|surgeon|and|physician|at|the|cit_
hospit|he|is|identifi|with|the|knight|of|pythia|and|belong|to|the
local|lodg|of|the|mason|order|from|childhood|inocul|with|the|prin
cipl|and|beauti|of|the|methodist|creed|and|doctrin|he|earl_|becam
a|member|of|the|church|and|is|now|act|in|the|capac|of|truste|of|the
elmer|congreg
his|marriag|was|solenm|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|the|ladi|of|his|choic
be|alic|w|sniffin|a|daughter|of|nathaniel|sniffin|of|new|york|she
possess|an|excel|educ|and|is|ver|30i|ular|in|church|and|social|cir
cles|as|is|also|her|husband
return|b|swain
the|fit|reward|of|a|long|and|actix|e|busi|career|is|an|honor
retir|from|labor|in|which|to|enjoy|the|fruit|of|former|toil|mr|swain
after|manv|ear|identif|with|inckistri|and|corjimerci|interest|in
this|section|of|the|countr|is|now|fix|retir|near|cape|iay|court|hous
have|in|former|year|actiuir|a|handsom|compet|and|consider
real|estat|both|citi|and|farm|properti|the|incom|from|which|suppli|him
with|all|the|comfort|and|mani|of|the|luxuri|of|life
he|was|born|in|the|town|of|swainton|in|middl|township|cape|la
countv|februar|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|his|iarent|be|isaac|and|mari|saag|swain
congressiox|district|of|xfj|jersrv|three hundred and seventy-five
the|first|of|the|name|of|whom|ue|have|record|was|richard|swain|who
cross|the|atlant|from|england|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-three|and|settl|on|nantucket|island
massachusett|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-nine|he|was|twice|marri|his|second|wife|bemg|jane
bunker|the|widow|of|georg|bunker|the|bunker|were|member|ot|tl
societi|of|friend|and|richard|swain|s|second|wife|was|the|hrst|hite|child
born|on|nantucket|island|she|die|octob|thirty-one|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|the|onli|son|of|her
second|marriag|was|richard|swain|jr|who|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety|settl|at|town|bank
with|jeremiah|bass|who|was|the|agent|for|the|london|proprietor|of|the
west|jersey|shore|mr|bass|was|employ|in|the|whale|fisheri|and|brought
to|new|jersey|a|colonv|of|those|who|were|employ|by|him|at|a|later|date
richard|swain|sr|also|arriv|in|this|counti|lemuel|swain|the|patern
grandfath|of|our|subject|who|was|the|son|of|sila|swain|who|die|may
eight|i79|was|born|in|lower|township|cape|may|counti|and|becam|a|pilot
on|the|delawar|riyer|he|die|septemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and three|in|his|thirtvnmth|year
of|yellow|fever|contract|on|board|a|vessel|which|he|had|taken|up|the|nver
he|marri|judith|hand|who|was|born|march|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three|and|die|januari
2q|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|their|children|were|lemuel|judith|the|wife|of|norton|lud|urn
hannah|the|wife|of|jonathan|nottingham|charlott|maria|the|wife|of
christoph|ludlum|and|isaac|t|qr
the|last|name|isaac|swain|was|born|at|green|creek|juli|thirteen|lioo
and|resid|in|middl|township|cape|may|counti|he|was|a|shoemak
farmer|and|merchant|of|swainton|which|place|was|name|in|iri|honor
there|he|resid|for|mani|year|and|there|his|death|occur|he|held|a
number|of|local|offic|discharg|his|duti|prom|tli|and|faith|n
polit|he|was|first|a|whig|but|on|the|dissolut|of|that|parti|joincl|the
rank|of|the|democrat|parti|a|member|of|the|baptist|church|of|tape
may|court|hous|he|held|a|number|of|offici|posit|therein|and|great
aid|in|the|support|and|progress|of|the|church|he|die|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five
at|the|aoe|of|eightvfiv|year|and|his|wife|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and two|pass
away|in|i87|at|the|age|or|seventytwo|year|in|their|famili|were|three
sonv|return|of|this|sketch|jame|monro|who|spent|the|greater|part|of
his|life|on|the|sea|and|die|in|el|paso|texa|and|isaac|who|marri|emma
hand|a|daughter|of|charl|hand
return|babcock|swain|is|not|onli|a|selfmad|man|but|s|also|a|self
educ|man|he|pursu|his|studi|in|the|common|school|m|earli|life
but|dure|his|youth|attend|onli|one|term|of|summer|school|his|labor
be|need|on|the|home|farm|at|the|age|of|fifteen|howev|he|purchas
textbook|and|key|and|pursu|a|systemat|cours|of|studi|until|forti
five|year|of|ae|while|work|in|the|field|he|solv|his|problem|and|his
plow|and|harrow|were|cover|with|figur|wherebi|he|obtain|the|solu
thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
tion|to|the|question|which|puzzl|liim|he|not|onli|becam|profici|in
the|elementari|mathemat|branch|but|also|master|mensur|sur
vey|and|navig|the|same|energi|and|determin|which|prompt
him|to|gain|a|good|educ|in|the|face|of|difficulti|have|enabl|him|to
ork|his|way|steadili|upward|in|the|busi|world|to|a|posit|of|promi
nenc|he|follow|farm|until|thirtynin|year|of|age|and|then|locat|in
cape|may|citi|where|he|engag|in|survey|he|also|built|the|first|water
work|there|and|laid|the|sewer|system|of|the|town|at|his|own|expens|and
risk|spend|sever|thousand|dollar|the|two|system|howev|were
perfect|satisfactori|and|were|accept|by|the|town|he|was|the|superin
tendent|of|the|gaswork|for|twelv|year|dure|which|time|he|rebuilt|and
enlarg|the|plant|and|develop|the|work|which|he|success|conduct
until|his|remov|to|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|make|his|home|in|that|citi|until
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|k|six|was|there|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|bath|tub|at|no|one thousand, seven hundred and one
morri|street|but|retir|from|activ|connect|with|that|industri|at|the
end|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|although|he|still|own|the|factori|which|he|rent|his|land
possess|are|extens|and|embrac|a|number|of|resid|in|philadel
phia|and|two|farm|one|of|two|hundr|and|sixti|acr|and|anoth|of|one
hundr|acr|in|middl|township|his|wife|is|also|the|owner|of|a|valuabl
tract|of|land|which|is|the|place|of|their|abod
mr|swain|has|been|twice|marri|he|first|wed|miss|rachel|reev
februari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|a|daughter|of|benjamin|f|reev|their|children|are
jame|deceas|who|was|a|surveyor|by|profess|but|engag|in|the|manu
factur|of|bath|tub|with|his|father|he|marri|linda|hand|and|they|had
a|daughter|ella|hannah|becam|the|wife|of|richard|l|carpent|who
succeed|mr|swain|in|his|busi|and|they|have|six|children|rae|mari
charl|helen|richard|and|hubert|mari|is|the|wife|of|samuel|j|martin
a|tailor|with|the|firm|of|wanamak|brown|of|philadelphia|and|they
have|a|daughter|edith|clara|is|the|wife|of|alexand|arthur|weber|a
druggist|of|philadelphia|and|their|children|are|clara|and|arthur|a|hubert
the|third|of|the|famili|die|at|the|age|of|six|year|the|mother|of|these
children|was|bom|septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|on|the|23d|of
march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|mr|swain|was|again|marri|mrs|roxana|hand|becom|his
wife|she|was|the|widow|of|j|holm|hand|a|farmer|and|had|two|children
by|her|first|marriag|john|h|and|absalom|m|mr|swain|is|a|member
of|porter|lodg|no|four hundred and forty-one|f|a|m|of|philadelphia|his|life|has|been|a
busi|and|use|one|and|he|is|a|man|of|probiti|who|through|the|legitim
channel|of|trade|has|won|mark|success|his|present|rest|is|well|merit
and|with|it|he|enjoy|the|warm|regard|of|mani|friend
coxgressiox|district|of|neif|jersey|five hundred and seventy-seven
samuel|a|ridgway
samuel|a|ridgvay|is|one|of|the|truli|selfmad|men|of|salem|counti
as|he|start|out|to|fight|in|the|battl|of|life|emptyhand|but|with|the
brave|heart|and|spirit|which|command|success|sooner|or|later|his|ad
vantag|in|the|direct|of|school|educ|as|well|were|limit|but|his
keen|power|of|observ|and|habit|of|read|and|studi|have|made|him
one|of|the|best|inform|men|in|his|neighborhood
the|birth|of|mr|ridgway|took|place|in|gloucest|counti|this|state|in
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|his|father|richard|s|ridgway|was|the|youngest|of|a|famili|of|eleven
children|the|other|be|name|respect|naomi|job|ann|phoeb
daniel|samuel|jacob|josiah|john|and|lydia|their|parent|were|jacob
and|keziah|pedrick|ridgway|of|burlington|counti|new|jersey|activ
member|of|the|societi|of|friend|jacob|ridgway|live|to|reach|the|ripe
age|of|fourscor|year|richard|s|ridgway|the|father|of|our|subject|was
a|man|of|sterl|worth|a|strong|nobl|charact|influenti|in|all|good
work|in|his|communiti|he|die|at|the|home|of|our|subject|on|the|14th
of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|when|in|his|eightysecond|year|he|had|live|a|retir|life
for|about|ten|year|but|until|he|was|more|than|threescor|and|ten|was
busili|engag|in|run|a|farm|which|he|own|situat|near|harrison
vill|gloucest|counti|that|homestead|is|now|in|the|hand|of|his|son
richard|who|becam|it|purchas|some|year|ago|the|wife|and|mother
whose|maiden|name|was|sarah|ann|kstell|and|whose|birthplac|was|in|cape
may|counti|new|jersey|is|yet|live|now|be|eighti|year|of|age|she
was|the|mother|of|five|son|of|whom|onli|one|georg|g|is|deceas|and
the|other|are|john|e|samuel|a|jacob|h|and|richard|d
the|earli|year|of|samuel|a|ridgway|were|pass|in|the|usual|pursuit
of|countri|lad|and|from|the|time|he|was|seventeen|until|he|was|twenti|he
work|for|farmer|by|the|month|then|go|to|burlington|counti|this
state|he|was|employ|by|jacob|e|ridgway|for|three|year|win|the
golden|opinion|of|all|with|whom|he|had|deal|his|next|move|was|to
embark|in|busi|on|his|own|account|and|as|he|had|been|econom|and
husband|his|resourc|he|was|enabl|to|rent|a|farm|and|purchas|the
necessari|implement|and|equip|for|carri|on|the|place|proper
after|rent|a|homestead|of|amo|gant|for|three|year|he|leas|one|of
aaron|borton|of|mullica|hill|for|a|year|and|subsequ|manag|the
jacob|e|ridgway|farm|at|bordentown|burlington|counti|for|a|period|of
ten|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|remov|to|his|present|farm|which|he|bought|the
ensu|year|and|has|success|carri|on|ever|sinc|the|place|which
three hundred and seventy-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
is|one|of|the|ijest|in|pile|grove|township|compris|one|hundr|and|ten
acr|and|upon|it|stand|su1|stantial|liuiid|and|other|improv
in|his|struggl|to|acquir|a|compet|and|honor|posit|in|the
communiti|mr|ridgway|has|been|abli|aid|by|his|estim|wife|eliza
beth|to|whom|he|was|marri|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|she|is|a|daughter|of|amo
and|rachel|kirbi|farmer|of|mullica|hill|gloucest|countv|and|her
brother|and|sister|are|maggi|p|wife|of|william|f|iredel|mari|who
first|wed|ephraim|cole|and|after|his|death|becam|the|wife|of|samuel
iredel|georg|deceas|christiana|the|widow|of|walter|edward|clayton
j|edward|and|erank|amo|kirbi|who|now|is|in|his|eightysixth|year|is
a|son|of|job|and|mari|kirbi|former|of|woodstown|mrs|rachel|kirbi
depart|this|life|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|when|she|was|in|her|seventyninth|year|to|the
union|of|our|subject|andi|wife|two|son|and|a|daughter|were|born|name
lillian|who|die|when|two|year|old|and|frank|k|and|harri|g|both
promis|young|men|who|have|been|well|train|at|home|in|the|duti|of
citizenshi|and|are|take|a|worthx|place|in|the|busv|world
nathan|a|cohen|m|d
the|rank|of|the|medic|jirofess|are|continu|v|be|replet|b|the
graduat|of|our|medic|colleg|some|of|whom|enter|the|fratern|to|meet
failur|some|to|secur|onli|a|moder|degre|of|success|and|other|to|leav
the|rank|of|the|mani|and|stand|among|the|success|few|occupi|a
posit|of|emin|by|reason|of|their|pronounc|abil|comprehens
knowledg|and|superior|skill|to|this|last|class|belong|dr|cohen|his
studi|have|been|most|thorough|and|exhaust|embrac|everi|branch
of|the|scienc|of|medicin|and|special|prepar|in|mani|line|has|made
him|particular|skill|in|mani|depart|of|his|chosen|call
nathan|alexand|cohen|was|born|in|the|eighth|ward|of|philadelphia
juli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|is|a|son|of|theodor|tobia|and|henrietta|seaman|cohen
his|father|was|a|painter|by|trade|and|spent|his|entir|life|in|philadelphia
he|had|six|children|esther|is|the|wife|of|joseph|simpson|who|is|engag
in|the|iron|foundri|busi|in|newark|ohio|and|had|two|children|nathan
alexand|and|thoma|t|the|latter|of|whom|die|in|infanc|m|daniel|is
a|painter|of|philadelphia|lesser|philip|is|associ|with|his|brother|nathan
in|the|drug|busi|under|the|firm|name|of|cohen|brother|have|a|store
at|wildwood|and|one|at|six thousand, two hundred and thirty-five|lancast|avenu|philadelphia|and|he|is|the
manag|of|the|latter|julia|is|the|wife|of|john|shaldic|deceas|the|doctor
coxgressfox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and seventy-nine
is|the|next|of|the|famili|and|ameha|die|in|infanc|the|father|s|death
occur|novemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|in|his|seventieth|year|but|the|mother|is|still|liv
ing|at|the|age|of|seventi|year
dr|cohen|pursu|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|philadelphia
and|then|accept|a|clerkship|in|the|drug|store|of|e|j|davidson|com
pani|of|that|citv|with|whom|he|remain|for|a|year|and|a|half|he|after
ward|spent|two|vear|as|a|salesman|with|mussel|housekeep|and|then
spent|six|month|in|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in|experi|in|the
anatom|laboratori|subsequ|he|was|with|henri|a|borel|a|drug
gist|for|a|vear|then|with|the|georg|w|carpent|henzi|compani|for
one|year|and|with|the|rosengarten|chemic|compani|as|assist|m
charg|of|the|depart
he|was|graduat|at|the|philadelphia|colleg|of|pharmaci|in|the|class
of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|and|spent|three|year|in|the|veterinari|depart|of|the|univ
siti|of|pennsylvania|be|graduat|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|is|a|grad
uat|of|the|jefiferson|medic|colleg|of|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|and|open|an
offic|in|hammonton|new|jersey|where|he|engag|in|the|practic|of|medi
cine|for|a|vear|his|health|becom|impair|he|went|to|camden|new
jersey|where|he|continu|for|eighteen|month|and|on|the|5th|of|novem
ber|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|he|came|to|wildwood|where|he|has|sinc|success|engag|in
the|practic|of|medicin|make|a|specialti|of|surgeri|in|which|he|is|excep
tional|profici|he|has|perform|some|exceed|difficult|and|delic
oper|which|have|attract|the|attent|of|the|profess|and|won|him
prestig|with|the|public|he|has|not|onli|pursu|a|general|cours|of|studi
in|medicin|and|surgeri|but|also|spent|one|year|with|the|celebr|surgic
specialist|dr|william|w|keen|of|philadelphia|and|with|dr|orvill|g
harivitz|and|j|s|cohen|in|the|studi|of|diseas|of|the|nose|and|throat|he
is|a|member|of|the|cape|may|counti|medic|societi|and|occupi|a|posi
tion|in|medic|circl|second|to|none|in|this|section|of|the|state|his|prep
arat|for|his|chosen|call|was|most|comprehens|and|thorough|and
ad|to|this|is|a|sympathi|for|his|fellow|men|without|which|no|one|can|lie
entir|success|in|the|medic|profess|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|establish|a|drug
store|which|he|conduct|in|connect|with|his|practic
social|the|doctor|is|connect|with|cape|island|lodg|no|thirty|f
a|m|general|marion|lodg|no|six|i|o|o|f|of|philadelphia|and
friendship|lodg|a|o|you|w|he|is|a|gentleman|of|social|manner|genial
tempera|and|kind|disposit|qualiti|which|render|him|popular
and|win|him|mani|friend|his|acquaint|is|extens|and|he|enjoy|the
high|regard|of|all|with|whom|he|come|in|contact
38o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
charl|hire
charl|hire|a|glass|manufactur|and|farmer|has|been|close|asso
ciat|with|the|various|busi|interest|of|salem|salem|counti|new
jersey|keen|and|discern|in|his|judgment|he|has|exercis|great|care
in|his|invest|and|today|is|consid|one|of|the|wealthi|men|of|the
counti
mr|hire|was|born|octob|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|in|lower|penn|s|neck|t|iwnship
salem|counti|and|is|the|youngest|of|a|larg|famili|his|father|georg
hire|was|a|promin|farmer|of|his|day|as|a|boy|the|subject|of|this|sketch
develop|trait|of|charact|that|were|destin|eventu|to|lead|him|to|a
success|life|industri|and|persever|twin|virtu|have|been|exempli
fie|in|him|throughout|his|whole|career
he|receiv|a|rather|meager|educ|two|or|three|month|dure|the
winter|of|each|year|be|the|extent|of|a|farm|boy|s|educ|priileg
in|those|day|one|instanc|will|serv|to|show|the|kind|of|boy|air|hire
was|it|was|the|fashion|for|each|villag|or|communiti|to|have|it|debat
societi|and|the|villag|of|ouinton|where|he|then|live|with|his|parent
had|such|a|one|compos|of|the|schoolmast|and|other|who|were|inter
est|in|educ|and|the|broaden|of|their|mind|mr|hire|who|was
at|that|time|about|fourteen|year|old|conceiv|the|idea|that|he|would|like
to|join|this|societi|notwithstand|the|fact|that|he|was|at|that|age|when
most|boy|would|much|rather|plav|than|listen|to|a|debat|and|that|all|the
other|member|of|the|societv|were|much|older|than|himself|mani|of|them
be|middleag|and|old|men|xo|doubt|this|societi|was|of|great|benefit
to|him|sinc|it|taught|him|to|think|correct|and|logic|and|has|been
probabl|one|of|the|chief|caus|of|his|superior|judgment|of|affair|in|his
later|year
he|join|the|great|armi|of|wageearn|at|the|age|of|seventeen|have
secur|a|posit|as|clerk|in|the|general|store|of|smith|hire|at|ouinton
new|jersey|his|brother|georg|hire|be|the|junior|member|of|this|firm
after|work|for|this|firm|for|about|two|year|he|bought|mr|smith|s|inter
est|and|for|about|one|year|thereaft|the|busi|was|conduct|under|the
firm|name|of|georg|charl|hire|june|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|when|our|subject
was|still|in|his|teen|he|associ|with|his|brother|georg|hire|david|p
smith|and|john|lambert|under|the|firm|name|of|smith|hire|lambert
compan|for|the|manufactur|of|window|glass|and|built|a|factori|at|ouin
ton|new|jersey|which|began|oper|octob|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|mr|hire|re
main|in|the|glass|busi|until|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|when|his|wife|s|father
aimer|smith|a|farmer|of|lower|alloway|creek|township|have|recent
coxgressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|3s1
die|he|sold|his|interest|in|the|manufactor|to|georg|r|morrison|late
surrog|and|remov|to|the|farm|where|he|began|his|first|real|experi
as|an|agriculturist|he|spent|four|success|year|as|a|farmer|and|m|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
move|to|salem|new|jersey|think|that|he|would|retir|from|activ|busi
ness|but|his|age|he|was|onlv|twentynin|year|old|and|natur|inchna
tion|would|not|permit|of|an|inact|life|so|in|a|few|month|he|again|becam
a|member|of|the|glass|firm|at|ouinton|of|which|firm|he|has|remam|a
member|ever|sinc|mr|hire|is|one|of|the|largest|stockhold|in|the
hiresturn|glass|companv|of|philadelphia|pennsylvania|this|compani
was|formerlv|known|as|hire|compani|limit|and|was|establish|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|bv|the|then|member|of|the|firm|of|hire|compani|at|qmnton
new|jersev|the|busi|grew|rapid|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|the|firm|was|chang
to|a|stock|compani|and|is|today|one|of|the|largest|and|most|flourish
busi|enterpris|of|it|charact|in|the|citi|of|philadelphia|mr|hire
is|one|of|the|largest|landown|in|salem|counti|in|addit|to|farm
propertv|he|own|consider|resid|and|busi|properti|in|the|citi
of|salem|he|is|a|director|in|the|fanner|mutual|fire|insur|comjiani
of|salem|new|jersey|and|is|also|a|stockhold|in|the|citi|nation|and
salem|nation|bank
in|pohtic|mr|hire|has|been|a|lifelong|republican|and|an|intellig
worker|in|the|rank|of|that|parti|he|is|a|member|of|the|fenwick|lodg
i|o|o|f|the|fenwick|club|and|an|honor|member|of|the|first|presbi
terian|church|in|which|he|has|serv|as|a|truste|for|the|past|ten|year|mr
hire|was|unit|in|marriag|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|to|susanna|du|boi|smith
the|onli|daughter|of|abner|smith|a|promin|farmer|of|lower|alloway
creek|township|five|children|have|been|ad|to|the|home|of|mr|and|mrs
hire|namelv|abner|smith|who|was|born|april|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|educ|in|the
south|jersey|institut|at|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|in|princeton|colleg
and|assist|his|father|in|his|busi|he|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|to|miss|eliza
beth|h|patrick|by|whom|he|has|three|children|russel|r|susanna|d|and
helen|e|dr|nathaniel|stretch|hire|bom|juli|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|receiv|his|edu
cation|dure|his|earlier|year|in|ouinton|and|salem|and|then|enter|the
medic|depart|of|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|graduat|with|the
degre|of|doctor|of|medicin|june|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|took|a|postgradu|cours
of|one|year|in|the|polyclin|hospit|in|philadelphia|and|was|a|resid
physician|at|the|cooper|hospit|of|camden|new|jersey|for|more|than|a
vear|t|present|he|is|locat|and|practic|medicin|in|the|citi|of|salem
dr|hire|is|a|member|of|the|salem|counti|and|the|new|jersey|state|medi
cal|societi|the|fenwick|club|the|salem|counti|club|and|knight|of
pvthia|charl|royal|hire|was|born|februari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|was|educ
three hundred and eighty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
at|qiiinton|supplement|this|with|a|cours|at|prickett|s|colleg|of|com
merc|in|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|marri|anna|f|fogg|a|daughter|of
robert|s|fogg|of|the|firm|of|fogg|hire|compani|he|is|a|farmer
of|mannington|township|and|a|member|of|the|salem|counti|club|and|of
the|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|eugen|hale|hire|was|born|septemb
eight|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|receiv|his|jjrimari|educ|at|the|salem|high|school|and
then|enter|pierc|s|busi|colleg|at|philadelphia|he|has|l|een|em
jiloy|in|the|store|of|hire|compani|at|quinton|and|is|now|with|the
hiresturn|glass|compani|of|philadelphia|mari|nna|hire|born|de
cember|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|is|at|home|with|her|father|mrs|charl|hire|born|feb
ruari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|die|februari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|the|age|of|fiftythre|year|she
was|descend|from|peopl|of|revolutionari|fame|her|greatgrandfath
william|smith|held|a|commiss|from|the|continent|congress|as|captain
of|militia|and|live|at|quinton|where|he|took|part|in|the|battl|which|was
fought|there|dure|the|revolutionari|war|he|was|a|larg|landown|and
much|of|his|properti|is|still|in|the|hand|of|his|descend|he|had|three
son|william|washington|and|oliv|washington|resid|in|the|vicin
of|quinton|and|own|a|larg|acreag|be|an|extensi|e|farmer|of|that
section|he|had|a|larg|famili|one|of|whom|was|bner|born|in|one hundred and eighty-one|one|and
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|he|marri|mari|ann|stretch|who|lior|him|one|child|sus
anna|duboi|hire|the|stretch|famili|were|an|old|and|respect|famili|of
this|countrv
job|bicknel|elli|a|m
the|angl|of|human|knowledg|is|constant|broaden|as|men|of
strong|mental|and|keen|discern|carri|their|research|further|and
further|into|the|realm|of|scienc|discov|fact|new|to|the|world|which
add|to|the|sum|of|human|wisdom|in|no|depart|of|knowledg|have
greater|discoveri|been|made|in|the|last|centuri|than|in|ijotan|line|and
one|of|the|pioneer|in|a|new|field|of|origin|investig|is|j|b|elli|whose
labor|have|ad|much|to|man|s|understand|of|the|plant|kingdom|esp
cialli|concern|mycolog|his|name|deserv|a|place|on|the|page|of
histori|by|the|side|of|asa|gray|and|other|of|note|and|is|a|familiar|one|in
the|circl|of|our|countri|s|greatest|botanist|and|deepest|student|of|the
plant|life|he|live|a|veri|quiet|seclud|life|in|his|home|in|newfield|but
the|result|of|his|labor|have|gone|forth|to|the|world|in|mani|volum|of|ine
timabl|valu|that|have|won|him|the|admir|and|gratitud|of|the|most
learn|botanist|of|the|land
mr|elli|was|born|in|potsdam|st|lawrenc|countv|new|york|tanuarv
coxgressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|three hundred and eighty-three
twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|the|famili|origin|in|england|and|was|probabl|found|in
america|at|an|earli|period|in|the|coloni|histori|of|the|countri|his
grandfath|isaac|elli|and|his|father|freeman|elli|were|both|nativ|of
cape|cod|massachusett|the|latter|took|up|his|abod|in|st|lawrenc
counti|new|york|when|that|section|of|the|state|was|an|almost|unbroken
wilder|and|ijecam|an|adept|in|handl|the|ax|and|in|clear|away|the
forest|in|order|to|cultiv|the|land|he|develop|a|fine|farm|there|and
made|his|home|thereon|until|his|death|which|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|he|serv
as|a|deacon|in|the|baptist|church|and|was|a|man|of|sterl|worth|and|great
forc|of|charact|his|wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of|sarah|bicknel|and
was|a|daughter|of|amo|bicknel|of|rmont|whose|peopl|were|pioneer
of|the|green|mountain|state|and|veri|wealthi|and|influenti|peopl|she
die|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|by|her|marriag|she|becam|the|mother|of|six|children
four|of|whom|are|now|live|job|bicknel|of|this|review|allen|a|resid
of|minnesota|and|carleton|and|carlo|twin|who|are|resid|of|pot
dam|new|york
j|b|elli|was|rear|upon|his|father|s|farm|and|earli|began|to|assist|in
the|cultiv|of|the|field|he|attend|the|countri|school|of|the|neigh
borhood|and|evinc|a|great|fond|for|studi|devot|all|of|his|leisur
hour|to|his|book|at|the|age|of|sixteen|he|was|employ|to|teach|the
winter|school|at|stockholm|st|lawrenc|counti|where|he|was|to|receiv
ten|dollar|a|month|for|his|servic|and|board|round|among|his|pupil
five|of|the|ten|dollar|was|paid|in|cash|and|the|other|five|was|to|be|paid|in
grain|and|twenti|year|elaps|befor|he|receiv|all|of|the|cereal|have
complet|his|academ|cours|he|enter|union|colleg|at|schenectadi
new|york|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|but|at|the|end|of|the|term|he|was|oblig|to
put|asid|his|textbook|and|seek|a|posit|in|order|to|replenish|his|ex
haust|exchequ|in|compani|with|a|b|smith|later|a|promin|lawyer
he|start|on|foot|to|saratoga|counti|hope|to|secur|a|school|there|and
after|travel|through|the|dens|pine|wood|they|at|length|arriv|at|the
villag|of|charlton|there|mr|elli|secur|the|posit|he|desir|and
subsequ|was|enabl|to|complet|his|colleg|cours|be|graduat|in
union|colleg|with|the|degre|of|a|b|sinc|that|time|his|alma|mater|has
confer|upon|him|the|degre|of|a|m
after|his|graduat|mr|elli|went|to|germantown|pennsylvania|and
accept|a|posit|as|teacher|in|a|school|conduct|by|the|rev|d|wash
burri|he|had|studi|botani|a|littl|at|colleg|but|it|was|while|in|german
town|that|he|liegan|to|take|an|activ|interest|in|phanerogam|botani|littl
dream|of|what|the|outcom|would|be|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|he|sever|his
connect|with|the|school|and|enter|the|albani|new|york|academi
three hundred and eighty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
as|a|classic|teacher|remainino|there|one|ear|this|posit|was|better
suit|to|his|tast|for|he|had|decid|to|becom|a|profession|teacher|of
classic|georg|h|cook|later|the|state|geologist|of|new|jersey|was|the
princip|of|the|academi|the|even|of|mr|elli|were|spent|in|make
blowpip|analys|of|miner|in|compani|with|g|w|taylor|a|fellow|tutor
in|connect|with|mr|taylor|he|establish|a|select|school|the|follow
year|but|the|ventur|did|not|prove|a|3rofit|one|and|after|three|month
mr|elli|return|to|potsdam
dure|that|time|howev|he|saw|by|chanc|a|notic|of|ravenel|s|fungi
caroliniani|exsiccati|the|first|thing|of|the|kind|ever|issu|in|america
while|in|colleg|he|had|frequent|notic|the|agar|but|not|know
where|to|get|book|or|inform|concern|fungi|let|them|alon|but
upon|see|the|notic|of|ravenel|s|collect|he|wrote|to|him|and|then
commenc|a|correspond|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|which|last|until|ravenel|s|death
interrupt|onli|by|the|war|he|continu|collect|phanerogam|until
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|at|the|same|time|give|gradual|more|and|more|time|to|fungi|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|sold|his|phanerogam|collect|contain|about|one|thousand
speci|to|st|lawrenc|univers|canton|new|york
in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|mr|elli|becam|a|classic|teacher|in|a|mr|bartlett|s
board|school|in|poughkeepsi|new|york|where|he|remain|for|two
year|niil|there|in|connect|with|professor|buckhout|he|devot|his
saturday|to|collect|plant|and|his|sunday|were|spent|in|the|same|way
if|we|could|steal|away|for|mr|bartlett|was|veri|pious|in|februari
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|in|compani|with|his|sister|mrs|l|b|doud|he|left|poughkeepsi|for
charleston|south|carolina|expect|to|secur|a|posit|as|teacher|there
but|alreadi|the|section|differ|was|manifest|and|prevent|his|obtain
a|school|in|charleston|he|then|went|to|alexand|georgia|where|he|was
employ|as|a|teacher|but|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|return|to|potsdam|here|on|the
19th|of|april|of|that|year|he|marri|miss|arvilla|j|bacon|who|becam
his|most|abl|assist|in|his|labor|make|it|possibl|to|accomplish|his
enorm|and|valuabl|work|in|the|interest|of|american|mycolog|she
was|alway|associ|with|him|in|his|botan|interest|and|labor|until
her|death|which|occur|juli|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|their|onli|child|a|daughter|is|now
one|of|new|york|s|most|opular|profession|musician
in|the|fall|of|isd|mr|elli|becam|the|princip|of|canton|cadeniy
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|both|he|and|his|wife|began|teach|in|the|puldic|school|of|pot
dam|there|mr|elli|remain|until|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|when|he|join|the
unit|state|nay|at|brooklyn|new|sork|and|spent|the|winter|of|eighteen thousand, six hundred and forty-five
on|the|unit|state|steam|frigat|susquehanna|of|the|north|atlant|block
congression|district|of|new|jersey|three hundred and eighty-three
ade|squadron|he|was|present|at|the|bombard|of|fort|fisher|tlire
day|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|three|day|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|when|the|fort|was
taken|while|on|the|war|ship|he|becam|acquaint|with|mr|hale|from
new|jersey|who|told|him|of|the|good|climat|condit|in|xewfield|and
vicin|and|at|the|close|of|the|war|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|return|to|his
nativetown|and|remov|his|world|possess|to|newfield|where|he|has
sinc|made|his|home
sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|has|devot|his|entir|time|and|attent|to|fungi|desir
to|dissemin|more|wide|a|knowledg|of|north|american|fungi|and|to
arous|home|botanist|if|possibl|from|their|apathet|indiffer|toward
these|plant|he|decid|to|begin|in|a|modest|way|by|issu|ten|set|of
new|jersev|fungi|under|the|titl|of|fungi|novacaesariens|he|put
up|ten|centuri|on|sheet|of|paper|in|box|of|the|two|set|sold|one
went|to|dr|farlow|the|other|to|isaac|c|martindal|about|this|time|mr
elli|went|to|see|the|latter|gentleman|who|ask|whi|not|call|it|north
american|fungi|mr|elli|see|the|greater|appropri|and|scope
of|such|a|titl|recal|the|two|set|and|conclud|to|get|out|a|seri|of|cen
turi|in|bound|volum|entitl|north|american|fungi|at|that|time|he
was|so|press|for|mean|that|he|had|not|money|enough|to|get|the|book
made|for|the|first|two|centuri|thereupon|professor|farlow|who|favor
the|scheme|had|the|book|made|in|boston|and|advanc|them|to|mr|elli
who|paid|for|them|as|soon|as|he|was|abl|the|centuri|took|welt|from|the
start|and|from|thirtyf|set|to|begin|with|the|demand|rapid|increas
up|to|fiftythre|set|which|number|of|copi|has|been|issuetl|regular|for
some|year|past|altogeth|thirtysix|centuri|have|been|issu|or|about
three|thousand|separ|volum|have|been|made|fill|with|specimen|and
sold|truli|n|a|f|has|becom|a|household|phrase|with|the|cryptogam
botanist|of|this|countri|and|europ
in|all|this|great|undertak|as|well|as|in|other|the|cheer|interest
and|practic|help|of|mrs|elli|were|constant|appar|she|made
and|bound|all|the|book|except|the|first|sixti|which|dr|farlow|kind|ad
vanc|for|his|friend|at|the|begin|near|all|the|specimen|were|clean
sort|put|into|neat|pocket|label|and|fasten|by|her|hand|mr|elli
himself|sav|that|owe|to|his|great|correspond|and|the|enorm|bur
densom|quantitv|of|materi|constant|be|sent|to|him|for|determin
and|comparison|he|would|not|have|been|abl|to|get|out|the|north|american
fungi|without|her|valuabl|aid|the|follow|notic|in|scienc|of|au
gust|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|is|a|worthi|tribut|to|her|memori
in|the|death|of|mrs|arvilla|j|elli|of|newfield|new|jersey|on|juli
three hundred and eighty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
i8|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|there|pass|away|anoth|of|those|patient|worker|to|whose
fidehti|scienc|owe|so|much|not|known|as|a|botanist|not|a|member|of|a
scientif|societi|nor|the|author|of|a|scientif|paper|she|nevertheless|con
tribut|more|to|the|advanc|of|our|knowledg|of|the|fungi|than|mani
of|those|whose|name|are|frequent|append|to|scientif|articl|in|the
journal|mani|year|ago|she|began|aid|her|husband|mr|j|b|elli|in
the|arduous|labor|of|prepar|and|mount|the|specimen|for|the|north
american|fungi|and|later|for|the|fungi|columbiani|and|with|her|own
hand|bound|the|book|in|which|these|were|deliv|to|subscrib|had|it
not|been|for|her|help|the|first|of|these|great|distribut|number|three thousand, six hundred
specimen|would|have|been|suspend|earli|in|it|histori|and|the|second
number|one thousand, four hundred|specimen|would|never|have|come|into|exist|to|her
deft|finger|which|wrought|so|patient|botan|scienc|is|indebt|for|the
more|than|two|hundr|thousand|specimen|of|the|fungi|which|mr|elli
distribut|to|the|botanist|of|the|world
from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|not|have|at|that|time|the|book|and|exsiccati
collect|necessari|for|independ|work|mani|specimen|were|sent|to
dr|m|c|cook|who|determin|and|publish|them|in|grevillea|sinc
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|mr|elli|has|been|associ|with|benjamin|m|everhart|who|has
freeli|place|at|his|friend|s|dispos|his|splendid|botan|librari|and|exten
sive|mycolog|collect|and|to|whose|aid|and|counsel|mr|elli|feel
great|indebt|mr|elli|made|a|eri|complet|collect|of|fungi|said
to|be|more|complet|than|ani|other|privat|collect|in|the|countri|and
sold|it|to|the|columbia|colleg|of|new|york|citi|on|may|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|had
collect|and|name|over|two|hundr|thousand|specimen|which|were|se
cure|from|all|part|of|the|countri
in|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|elli|was|elect|a|correspond|member|of|the|acad
emi|of|natur|scienc|of|philadelphia|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|was|elect
a|correspond|member|of|the|cryptogam|societi|of|scotland|and|in
decemb|of|the|same|year|was|elect|correspond|member|of|die|kaiser
lichkoniglich|zoologischbotanisch|gesellschaft|in|vienna|ir|elli
lead|a|quiet|retir|life|well|suit|to|his|studious|sensit|natur
thorough|scholar|and|linguist|he|is|familiar|with|latin|greek|german|and
french|and|has|also|a|good|practic|knowledg|of|polish|swedish|italian
and|spanish|he|has|labor|in|the|face|of|advers|have|not|onli|been
financi|hamper|in|his|earli|year|but|also|have|to|contend|against|a
delic|constitut|yet|nevertheless|he|has|probabl|done|more|than|ani
other|man|in|america|to|advanc|the|knowledg|of|our|nativ|fungi|and|to
stimul|the|ardor|of|everi|student|of|mycolog
coxgressioxil|district|of|xejv|jersey|y
thoma|bortox
this|gentleman|was|connect|with|the|agricultur|interest|of|glou
cester|counti|for|a|number|of|year|but|has|retir|from|farm|and|is|now
devot|his|energi|to|the|realest|busi|his|ofc|and|home|be|in
mullica|hill|he|was|born|on|the|15th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|in|pile|grove
salem|countw|and|is|a|repres|of|one|of|the|oldest|famili|of|america
earlv|in|the|seventeenth|centuri|repres|of|the|name|left|england
and|cross|the|atlant|to|the|xew|world|take|up|their|resid|in|bur
lington|countv|new|jers|william|borton|had|a|son|caleb|who|was|the
greatgrandfath|of|our|suljject|his|son|joel|borton|was|the|father|of
aaron|borton|who|was|born|in|burlington|counti|near|morristown|in|the
year|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|he|becam|a|farmer|and|took|up|his|resid|in|salem|counti
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|locat|on|the|tract|of|land|near|fullica|hill|he|success|con
duct|his|farm|and|at|the|same|time|labor|earnest|for|the|advanc
of|the|societi|of|friend|be|one|of|the|minist|of|that|organ
his|life|was|upright|and|honor|and|his|memori|remain|as|a|bless
reminisc|to|all|who|knew|him|for|thirtyfi|e|year|he|was|an|honoreil
resid|of|gloucest|counti|his|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|his|wife|who
bore|the|maiden|name|of|lydia|flitcraft|was|a|daughter|of|isaiah|flit
craft|and|belong|to|one|of|the|oldest|famili|of|salem|countv|her
death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|she|was|the|mother|of|nine|children|eight|of|whom
suri|have|her|martha|wife|of|charl|heritag|who|is|live|near|mickl
ton|thoma|of|this|review|elizabeth|the|widow|of|sa|engl|of|wood
buri|david|of|alullica|hill|lydia|the|wife|of|georg|h|duell|a|resid
of|this|local|sarah|the|wife|of|charl|l|peterson|of|woodstown|aaron
w|who|is|also|a|resid|of|gloucest|counti|and|edward|who|make|his
home|in|kansa|one|son|richard|was|kill|while|fight|for|the|lnion
in|the|civil|war
thoma|borton|pursu|his|educ|in|the|common|school|and|in|a
board|school|and|for|seven|year|success|engag|in|teach
through|the|winter|month|he|follow|farm|dure|the|summer|season
and|was|identifi|with|the|agricultur|interest|of|the|countv|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
when|he|took|up|his|abod|in|mullica|hill|where|he|is|now|engag|in|the
realest|busi|and|in|survey|he|has|also|settl|a|great|mani|estat
and|his|busi|interest|are|conduct|so|honor|ly|that|he|has|the|unquali
fie|confid|of|all|with|whom|he|has|been|brought|in|contact|he|own
a|farm|of|one|hundr|and|twentytwo|acr|on|which|is|a|valuabl|marl|bed
he|also|handl|properti|for|other|and|is|well|inform|concern|real
estat|valu|in|the|countv
three hundred and eighty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
mr|borton|has|taken|a|veri|promin|part|in|public|affair|and|for
t|ent|year|was|an|assessor|and|committeeman|he|has|been|spoken|of|as
a|candid|for|the|legislatur|and|in|pu1|lic|posit|has|discharg|his
duti|with|mark|prompt|and|fidel|in|his|religi|connect|he
is|a|friend|his|home|relat|have|been|veri|pleasant|and|for|a|third|of|a
centuri|he|has|trael|life|s|journey|with|anna|e|gaunt|a|daughter|of
samuel|ciaunt|of|gloucest|counti|their|marriag|have|been|celebr
februari|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|the|have|three|children|elizabeth|b|the|wife|of
harri|ridgeway|of|philadelphia|samuel|g|who|is|a|resid|of|gloucest
counti|and|illiam|h|who|make|his|home|in|philadelphia|mr|and|mrs
borton|are|wiilek|and|faorablv|known|in|the|communit|and|liae|a|larg
circl|of|friend
robert|c|chew
r|c|chew|was|horn|at|glassboro|gloucest|counti|new|jersew|au
gust|fourteen|i84|but|has|been|a|resid|of|his|present|properti|near|cecil|sinc
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|his|parent|were|thoma|e|and|elizabeth|miller|chew|who|re
side|in|this|counti|mani|year|the|father|was|of|english|descent|but
was|himself|a|nativ|of|marsh|lake|where|his|earli|life|was|sjient|he|manu
factur|the|first|lirick|that|was|made|at|clayton|dure|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and
twenti|vear|later|purchas|a|farm|of|two|hundr|and|twenti|acr|near
cecil|where|he|live|and|had|a|fifteenacr|cranberri|bog|he|oper|a
sawmil|on|this|properti|and|it|was|in|this|mill|that|he|met|his|death|from
an|accid|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|was|unit|in|wedlock|with|miss|elizabeth
miller|who|present|him|with|eleven|children|six|of|whom|with|the|widow
surviv|him|he|was|a|man|of|nobl|charact|and|high|esteem|bv|all
who|knew|him|the|li|children|are|susannah|h|the|widow|oi|imasc
bate|robert|c|salli|n|william|h|m|m|and|thoma
robert|c|chew|was|educ|in|the|common|school|of|glassboro|and
work|on|his|father|s|farm|until|he|attain|his|major|he|then|pur
chase|a|cranberr_|bog|in|this|vicin|and|engag|in|the|cultiv|of|that
berri|for|the|market|find|is|quit|a|profit|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he
purchas|his|present|farm|of|one|hundr|and|four|acr|which|he|has|sinc
made|his|home|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|built|a|sawmil|on|the|properti|and|has|sinc
oper|it|on|a|veri|success|basi|his|wife|was|former|miss|ruth
smith|a|daughter|of|nathaniel|smith|one|of|the|most|promin|men|of
glassboro|six|children|have|bless|their|union|all|of|whom|resid|with
their|parent|they|are|mathia|blair|vlice|lillian|ralph|and|claud
coxgressiox|district|of|xeif|jersey|three hundred and eighty-nine
mr|chew|is|a|meml|er|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|and|is|a
veri|popular|man|in|lii|communitv|for|more|than|twenti|year|has|he
serv|as|a|school|truste|and|lia|alway|heen|a|friend|to|educ
hexri|v|mart
the|name|of|mart|is|of|swedish|origin|and|the|famili|wliich|bear|it
was|plant|on|american|soil|at|an|earli|day|jonathan|mart|the|grand
father|of|him|whose|name|head|this|sketch|was|a|farmer|of|cumlierland
counti|new|jersey|resid|at|black|xeck|and|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|loyal
serv|his|countri|his|children|were|as|follow|eliza|charl|who|was
twice|marri|and|follow|farm|jonathan|who|marri|sarah|whittak
and|engag|in|the|lumber|busi|in|bridgeton|new|jersey|for|fifti|year
jane|the|wife|of|lewi|dangerbak|and|susan|the|wife|of|daniel|piatt|a
farmer|of|hopewel|township|cumberland|counti|who|was|the|uiiervisor
of|street|for|a|number|of|year
the|matern|grandfath|of|our|suljject|was|william|hittak|who|was
born|juli|eleven|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|and|was|marri|decemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|to|rebecca|west
cott|he|was|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|xew|jersey|and|also|dealt
in|glass|sand|his|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|his|wife|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|their
children|were|da|ton|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|and|die|june|twenty-two|one hundred and eighty-one|one|susan
born|march|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|nathaniel|who|was|born|june|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|die|the
follow|day|eunic|who|vas|born|june|twenty|eighteen|fourteen|and|marri|david|fith
ian|of|imillvill|villiam|h|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|re
becca|deceas|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|and|marri|dayid|powel|and|after
his|death|becam|the|wife|of|ephraim|harri|a|merchant|joseph|who|was
born|august|four|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|and|die|in|childhood|and|mari|maria|who|was|born
novemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|marri|captain|westcott
the|parent|of|our|subject|were|elija|b|and|susan|whittak|mart
the|former|one|orn|decemb|two|one|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|the|latter|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|the_|resid|at
fairton|cumberland|counti|and|mr|mart|follow|agricultur|ursuit
throughout|his|busi|career|he|own|and|oper|a|farm|until|the
inaugur|of|the|civil|war|when|he|remov|to|fairton|xew|jersey
where|he|livefl|retir|in|his|i|olit|affili|he|was|a|democrat|and|in
religi|belief|a|methodist|hold|the|offic|of|truste|for|a|number|of|vear
in|the|church|to|which|he|ijelong|he|was|marri|march|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|to
susan|whittak|and|to|them|were|born|seven|children|mari|jane|born
jime|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|marri|john|n|taylor|and|remov|to|kansa|where|mr
taylor|engag|in|farm|their|children|were|elizabeth|the|wife|of
3yo|biograph|histori|of|the|first
howard|willi|rhocia|the|wife|of|cajitain|lewi|campljel|of|bridgeton
new|jersey|rebecca|who|was|horn|april|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|die|august|twenty-five
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|samuel|jonathan|die|august|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|william|the|twin
brother|of|jonathan|was|marri|juli|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|to|anna|collin|of|philadel
phia|and|their|children|are|henri|t|harri|f|william|julia|emma|antl
susan|the|father|of|these|children|engag|in|the|oyster|busi|in|fair
ton|but|is|now|deceas|henr|the|subject|of|this|review|is|the|fourth
child|of|elija|e|mart|joseph|l|orn|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|die|on|the|24th|of|june|of
the|same|year|david|one|orn|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|marri|latti|llcn|and|the|had|two
children|araniinda|and|mice|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|he|wed
ddie|stratton|and|he|is|now|assist|lightkeep|on|the|shipjohn|light
hous|elizabeth|the|youngest|of|the|famili|was|born|octob|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three
and|die|may|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|the|father|of|our|subject|die|octob|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two
at|the|age|of|sixtytwo|vear|and|the|mother|pass|awa|in|her|eightv
seventh|year
heiu|y|whittak|lart|was|educ|in|the|iiublic|school|and|in|sub
scription|school|which|he|attend|three|term|t|the|age|of|thirteen
howev|he|put|asid|his|textbook|and|has|sinc|l|een|depend|upon
his|own|exert|so|that|he|deser|great|credit|for|the|success|he|has
achiev|he|first|work|in|an|oster|hous|in|fairton|but|when|the|civil
war|broke|out|he|put|asid|all|person|consider|and|oiier|his|ser
ice|to|the|govern|enlist|in|compani|f|third|new|jersey|infantri
origin|call|the|cumberland|grey|the|command|was|attach|to|the
armi|of|the|potomac|and|proceed|to|washington|where|it|was|assign
to|the|first|divis|of|the|first|corp|jmr|mart|was|muster|in|may|twenty-eight
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|particip|in|the|occup|of|arlington|height|the|battl|of|bull
run|cloud|s|mill|the|reconnoit|to|lewisvill|virginia|spottsylvania
springfield|station|the|seven|day|battl|of|the|ilder|gain|farm
charl|cit_|cross|road|malvern|hill|p|ull|run|manassa|chantilli
antietam|fredericksburg|the|second|campaign|against|fredericksburg
salem|height|gettysburg|fairfield|rappahannock|mine|run|and|the
wilder|at|s|5ottsylvania|on|the|9th|of|mav|he|was|woimd|in|the|right
thigh|by|a|musket|ball|which|jiass|through|the|leg|he|was|confin|in|a
hospit|in|washington|d|c|for|a|time|and|then|transfer|to|the|chest
nut|hill|hospit|in|philadelphia|on|the|2i|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|was|mus
tere|out|at|trenton|new|jersey|after|be|wound|and|remain|in
the|hospit|for|some|time|he|was|grant|a|furlough|to|return|home|and
befor|his|wound|had|heal|his|term|of|enlist|had|expir|he|return
with|an|honor|militari|record|for|on|mani|a|field|of|battl|he|had|dis
ila|e|l|his|lowiltv|and|his|fidelitv|to|the|union|becaus|he|now|maintain|a
coxgressiox|district|of|veff|jersey|three hundred and ninety-one
pleasant|relationship|with|his|old|armi|comrad|through|his|connect
with|a|l|robeson|post|no|forty-one|g|a|r|at|bridgeton|new|jersey
after|return|from|the|south|mr|mart|was|engag|in|the|oyster
busi|for|a|time|and|later|went|to|sea|as|mate|and|second|oflfic|on|the
emma|l|porter|a|vessel|engag|in|trade|with|the|est|indi|on|which
he|spent|two|and|a|half|year|he|was|afterward|on|the|ella|amsden|for
two|year|and|for|eight|year|sail|on|other|vessel|in|the|west|india|and
coastlin|trade|he|subsequ|learn|the|carpent|s|trade|at|which
he|serv|a|fiveyear|apprenticeship|he|then|engag|in|contract|on
his|own|account|he|was|howev|at|one|time|night|boss|of|the|work
of|the|rio|grand|sugar|compani|at|rio|grand|for|seven|year|and
afterward|repres|the|interest|of|the|compani|as|superintend|of|their
extens|possess|in|osceola|counti|at|st|cloud|florida|where|the
compani|own|larg|plantat|and|had|mammoth|interest|there|he
remain|for|two|year|superintend|the|construct|of|their|extens
sugar|mill|at|the|end|of|that|time|he|locat|in|wildwood|new|jersey
where|he|has|made|his|home|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|is|one|of|the|lead|contractor
and|builder|in|his|section|of|the|counti|and|took|the|contract|for|the|con
struction|of|the|wildwood|casino|the|largest|and|most|import|build
of|the|place|he|also|built|the|addit|to|the|dayton|hotel|and|has|erect
fulli|twothird|of|the|cottag|at|wildwood|employ|as|mani|as|sixti
men|at|one|time|he|is|also|engag|in|the|realest|busi|as|a|member
of|the|firm|of|reev|mart|the|senior|partner|remain|in|charg|of|the
offic|which|is|locat|at|no|two hundred and three|walnut|street|philadelphia|they|buy
lot|build|and|sell|hous|and|their|realest|transfer|have|lieen|mani
and|have|brought|to|them|fair|return|upon|their|invest
in|his|polit|view|mr|mart|is|a|stalwart|republican|and|was|ap
point|postmast|of|wildwood|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|so|that|he|is|the|present
incumb|he|has|alway|taken|a|deep|interest|in|the|success|of|his|parti
and|has|done|all|in|his|power|to|promot|it|growth|social|he|is|a|member
of|hereford|lodg|no|one hundred and eight|i|o|o|f|is|a|member|of|the|dia|creek|re
lief|associ|and|was|a|member|of|the|board|of|health|at|anglesea|while
at|the|present|write|he|is|sere|on|the|citi|council|of|wildwood|such
in|l|rief|is|the|historv|of|his|connect|with|the|public|interest|of|the|com
numitv|at|all|time|he|is|publicspirit|and|an|advoc|of|progress|and
improv|and|his|effort|in|behalf|of|the|citi|have|been|effect|and
benefici
on|the|27th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|ir|mart|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
christiana|a|daughter|of|john|w|and|ehzabeth|clark|davi|her|grand
father|joel|davi|was|born|near|broadneck|salem|counti|was|a|farmer
thirty-nine
biograph|histori|of|the|first
iji|occup|and|spent|his|last|day|in|retir|in|bridgeton|he|sere
his|countri|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|was|eer|a|loval|citizen|he|marri
priscilla|coomb|and|to|them|were|born|ten|children|mari|ruth|joshua
esther|benjamin|joel|jess|smith|jane|and|salli|the|grandfath|die
at|the|age|of|seventyseven|year|and|the|grandmoth|pass|away|when
about|seventi|year|of|age|john|w|davi|the|father|of|air|mart|was
born|in|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|septemb|sixteen|1s20|was|a|farmer
b|occup|but|spent|the|latter|year|of|his|life|in|inisi|in|alillvill
where|he|live|for|ten|year|in|polit|he|was|a|democrat|he|marri
elizabeth|clark|a|daughter|of|benjamin|clark|and|they|becam|the|parent
of|four|children|christiana|is|the|eldest|benjamin|who|marri|anna
epley|by|whom|he|has|two|children|william|and|lewi|was|former|en
gage|in|the|liveri|busi|in|millvill|but|is|now|resid|in|xew|york
citi|sarah|marri|e|s|hann|a|clothier|and|dyer|of|camden|xew|jer
sey|and|they|have|one|son|warren|d|who|marri|julia|ransom|and|has|a
son|name|warren|everett|her|father|is|hiram|ransom|who|serv|in
d|troop|third|cavalri|in|texa|was|through|the|garza|campaign|when
the|texan|tri|to|lireak|the|neutral|law|by|cross|over|to|assist|the
mexican|in|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and twelve|he|was|in|the|skirmish|of|red|ranch|and|other|en
gagement|of|a|similar|charact|and|spent|two|year|in|that|section|of|the
countri|he|captur|the|mexican|santevol|with|thirti|of|his|men|at|fort
carida|mexico|where|the|mexican|had|one|man|kill|while|the|ameri
can|lost|two|men|kill|and|six|wound|they|had|thirti|men|in|all|for
one|week|richard|hard|davi|was|with|them|as|press|correspond
bile|in|that|section|of|the|countrv|mr|ransom|and|his|command|made|a
march|of|one|hundr|and|twentvseen|mile|in|twentfour|hour|the
younger|son|of|sarah|davi|hann|is|john|wesley|who|is|now|general
servic|clerk|in|the|recruit|depart|he|serv|one|term|on|the
schoolship|saratoga|and|afterward|enter|the|regular|armi|benjamin|c
the|youngest|son|of|sarah|davi|hann|is|a|windowglass|blower
mr|and|mrs|mart|have|three|children|lizzi|the|wife|of|nelson|s
hay|the|superintend|of|the|water|work|at|wildwood|walter|at|home
and|helen|w|the|parent|are|wide|and|favor|known|and|the|hospi
taliti|of|mani|of|the|best|home|in|this|local|is|extend|them|mr
mart|is|a|selfmad|man|who|without|ani|extraordinari|famil|or|pecun
iari|advantag|at|the|commenc|of|life|has|battl|earnest|and|ener
getic|and|by|indomit|courag|and|integr|has|achiev|both|char
acter|and|compet|he|well|deserv|mention|among|the|lead|citizen
of|the|comnnmitv|and|we|are|pleas|to|present|the|record|of|his|honor
abl|career|to|our|reader
samuel|jcecroj
cuxgkessiox|district|of|xew|jersey|three hundred and ninety-three
samuel|le|croy
samuel|le|croy|the|genial|and|accommod|proprietor|of|one|of|the
most|flourish|general|store|to|it|found|in|pennsvill|salem|counti|new
jersey|is|a|selfmad|man|whose|career|is|a|credit|to|himself|and|the|citi|in
which|he|has|labor|he|was|born|in|woodstown|februari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|to
abner|b|and|mari|wallac|le|croy|both|of|whom|were|well|known|in
this|counti|where|they|spent|the|greater|part|of|their|live|abner|b
le|croy|also|was|born|in|salem|counti|and|was|one|of|three|children|his
sister|anna|marri|richard|duboi|of|lower|alloway|creek|township
while|his|brother|daniel|is|a|resid|of|philadelphia|their|father|was|a
farmer|of|this|counti|and|was|of|french|extract|the|name|have|origin
alli|been|spell|de|la|croix|abner|le|croy|was|engag|in|various|kind
of|employ|and|for|a|time|made|his|home|in|woodstown|his|marriag
to|miss|mari|wallac|was|honor|by|the|birth|of|five|children|john|clem
ent|deceas|samuel|anni|and|artemesia|the|mother|die|in|one hundred and eighty-nine|one|at
the|age|of|eightyf|year
samuel|le|croy|receiv|a|commonschool|educ|in|the|villag|of
woodstown|and|then|accept|a|posit|in|the|store|of|joseph|b|yonker
of|pennsvill|follow|this|he|engag|in|fish|for|a|short|time|and|then
open|his|present|store|which|he|has|enlarg|at|various|time|until|now|he
has|one|of|the|largest|stock|in|the|citi|embrac|drj|good|groceri|coal
hay|grain|etc|while|he|also|oper|a|mill|for|grind|corn|and|suppli
twine|etc|to|the|fishermen|he|is|a|shrewd|busi|man|and|has|accumu
late|consider|properti|t|one|time|he|dealt|extens|in|real|estat
in|connect|with|his|soninlaw|clarenc|l|sinnickson
mr|le|croy|was|marri|august|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|to|miss|emelin|dul|oi|a
daughter|of|jacob|duboi|and|two|children|have|bless|their|union|erna
the|wife|of|clarenc|l|sinnickson|of|salem|a|lumber|merchant|and|real
estat|dealer|and|lena|the|wife|of|dr|william|h|jame|a|physician|of
pennsvill|b|whom|she|has|one|child|le|croy|jame|mr|le|croy|is|in
depend|in|his|polit|and|advoc|the|principl|of|prohibit|he
has|held|the|offic|of|collector|and|assessor|for|twenti|year|and|honor
discharg|the|oblig|of|these|offic|he|has|alway|been|a|promin
and|progress|worker|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|of|which|be|is|a
member|a|steward|and|a|truste|he|has|made|a|most|satisfactori|superin
tendent|of|the|sundayschool|hold|that|posit|for|the|past|twenti|vear
he|was|former|a|member|of|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|and
the|knight|of|pythia|he|was|a|stockhold|of|the|salem|build|loan
associ|and|the|swedesboro|and|the|state|mutual|build|loan|as
three hundred and ninety-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
sociat|of|camden|he|is|a|man|of|true|worth|and|his|honest|upright
deal|have|won|him|the|univers|respect|of|all|who|have|had|busi
transact|ith|him
thoma|chew
this|gentleman|is|wide|and|favoralili|known|not|onli|in|mlliamstown
where|he|resid|but|also|throughout|gloucest|counti|he|was|born|at
clayton|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|the|son|of|thoma|e|and|elizabeth|liller|chew
previous|promin|resid|of|that|place|thoma|e|chew|was|born|at
marsh|lake|where|he|live|until|he|was|twentyon|year|of|age|wdien|he
locat|in|clayton|and|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|brick|he|continu
there|twenti|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|move|upon|a|farm|of|two|hundr|and
twenti|acr|near|cecil|now|own|and|occupi|by|his|son|m|m|chew
fifteen|acr|of|this|land|he|chang|into|a|cranberri|bog|and|was|veri
success|in|the|rais|of|that|fruit|he|also|conduct|a|sawmil|in
which|he|was|final|kill|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|his|wife|elizabeth|miller|sur
vie|and|is|now|in|her|seventysixth|year|he|was|a|man|of|sterl|worth
and|high|ideal|incap|of|wrongdo|and|remarkalili|shrewd|and|clear
sight|of|his|eleven|cliildren|six|are|still|live|viz|mlliam|h|a|resi
dent|of|hurffvill|this|state|m|m|of|cecil|new|jersey|who|is|repres
on|anoth|i|age|of|this|work|susannah|h|the|widow|of|clascal|bate
robert|c|who|oper|a|samil|near|here|salli|m|of|girard|colleg
philadelphia|and|thoma|our|subject
thoma|chew|spent|his|earlier|year|in|attend|at|the|local|school
and|later|enter|the|academi|at|glassboro|and|williamstowm|leav
school|he|learn|the|trade|of|mason|at|which|he|was|employ|continu
until|about|five|year|ago|when|he|purchas|a|tract|of|land|and|becam|a
farmer|he|has|a|fine|cranberri|bog|and|deriv|a|neat|profit|from|it|cultur
he|is|at|present|oper|also|a|sawmil|at|his|home|and|in|futur|will|make
saw|and|lumber|his|chief|busi
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|marri|miss|julia|a|daughter|of|richard|p|john
son|of|iount|holli|by|whom|he|has|had|four|children|three|of|whom|are
live|and|are|at|their|parent|home|name|cora|b|thoma|e|and
mari|mr|chew|has|been|a|promin|member|of|the|odd|fellow|order
sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|and|of|the|mason|fratern|ever|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|and|he|is|high
esteem|by|a|wide|circl|of|friend|as|a|mechan|he|has|few|equal|and
he|has|left|monument|of|his|labor|in|sever|state|for|seven|or|eight
year|of|his|life|he|was|engag|in|firebrick|work|in|new|york|connecticut
pennsylvania|and|new|jersev
coxgressiox|district|of|xelf|jersey|three hundred and ninety-five
fraxxi|k|duke
one|of|the|honor|veteran|of|the|civil|war|is|franci|kendrick|duke
who|is|now|engag|in|contract|and|build|in|cape|may|he|was
born|at|harper|s|ferri|virginia|decemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|is|a|repres
of|one|of|the|old|and|promin|famili|of|that|state|the|name|is|of|scotch
origin|and|his|parent|were|franci|and|elizabeth|kendrick|duke|the
former|was|also|a|nativ|of|harper|s|ferri|and|there|spent|his|entir|life
he|was|a|lead|and|influenti|citizen|and|loyal|serv|his|countri|in|the
war|of|181j|he|was|also|a|veri|promin|mason|he|had|a|membership
relat|with|the|presbyterian|church|and|was|a|man|whom|to|know|was|to
respect|and|honor|in|the|famili|were|hve|children|ann|marri|thoma
mens|who|serv|for|three|year|in|the|civil|war|in|the|corn|exchang
regiment|in|the|union|armi|and|was|wound|at|maryland|height|eliza
beth|l|ecam|the|wife|of|charl|kinsey|an|upholster|who|resid|in|phil
adelphia|and|who|also|serv|in|the|corn|exchang|regiment|as|did|the
two|son|of|thoma|mens|thoma|and|john|both|of|whom|were
wound|in|battl|franci|is|the|next|younger|john|marri|elizabeth|boat
and|was|an|upholster|of|philadelphia|and|ellen|becam|the|wife|of|jame
weir|a|machinist|of|philadelphia|who|was|a|lieuten|in|compani|f|sec
ond|delawar|regiment|and|serv|in|the|armi|of|the|potomac|be
serious|wound|in|one|of|it|battl|the|father|of|these|children|die|hi
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|when|about|fiftyf|year|of|age|and|the|mother|s|death|occur|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|in|the|sixtysecond|year|of|her|age
mr|duke|of|this|review|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|pennsyl
vania|and|put|asid|his|textbook|when|fifteen|year|of|age|he|start
out|in|life|on|his|own|account|and|learn|the|millwright|s|trade|serv|an
apprenticeship|of|three|and|a|half|year|he|afterward|serv|a|twoyear
apprenticeship|at|the|carpent|s|trade|and|has|sinc|engag|in|contract
and|build|he|has|erect|some|of|the|best|resid|in|cape|alay|in
fortyeight|dav|he|put|up|the|piermont|hotel|contain|fiftytwo|room
he|did|consider|build|in|philadelphia|and|was|employ|mani|time
by|frederick|phillip|to|superintend|his|build|oper|enterpris
and|energv|have|character|his|busi|career|and|his|close|applic
persever|and|capaljl|manag|have|brought|to|him|a|good|incom
his|product|labor|were|interrupt|dure|the|civil|war|by|his|enlist
ment|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|as|a|member|of|compani|f|second|regiment|of|dela
ware|volunt|his|command|was|attach|to|the|armi|of|the|potomac
second|corp|second|brigad|second|divis|and|he|particip|in|all
the|engag|in|front|of|richmond|at|drunnnondtown|airginia|he
three hundred and ninety|biograph|histori|of|the|first
was|injur|serious|lii|hors|which|was|shot|fall|upon|him|his|leg
was|broken|and|he|sustain|other|injuri|from|which|he|has|never|entir
recov|he|was|also|in|the|sevenday|lattl|and|the|engag|at
falmouth|and|fredericksburg|and|command|the|fourth|divis|at|the
convalesc|camp|in|alexandria|virginia|he|was|also|wound|at|the
battl|of|fair|oak|by|a|bullet|pierc|his|leg|was|shot|in|the|neck|at|sav
age|station|and|at|length|on|account|of|his|injuri|he|receiv|an|honor
abl|discharg|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|enlist|as|the|seconil|lieuten|of|his|comiiani
he|was|promot|to|the|rank|of|captain|on|the|field|at|savag|station|and|was
the|act|cjuartermast|at|the|battl|of|malvern|hill|occupi|a|posit
of|great|danger|dure|the|hottest|of|the|fight|with|an|honor|militari
record|he|return|home|conscious|of|have|faith|iierfomi|his|duti
upon|everi|occas
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|mr|duke|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|louis|eldredg|and
to|them|were|born|three|children|harriet|at|home|mari|the|wife|of|sam
uel|smyth|who|was|the|privat|secretari|for|frederick|phillip|for|seven
teen|year|and|resid|at|conshohocken|pennsylvania|with|his|wife|and
three|children|frank|marion|and|samuel|and|j|jhn|a|printer|resid|in
philadelphia|who|marri|kate|mcmanus|and|has|one|cliikl|name|lewi
in|his|polit|view|mr|duke|has|been|a|stalwart|republican|sinc|the
organ|of|the|parti|and|is|deepli|interest|in|it|success|he|sere
for|four|year|as|a|member|of|the|citi|council|and|for|two|ear|vas|an|alder
man|of|cape|may|he|was|also|the|justic|of|the|jjeac|for|lower|cape
may|township|for|ten|year|the|coron|for|three|year|and|was|deputi
unit|state|marshal|under|gregori|in|philadelphia|he|lielong|to|vari
ous|societi|hold|a|membership|in|john|mecray|post|xo|forty-one|g|a|r
of|which|he|was|at|one|time|the|command|with|the|rank|of|colonel|is|a
member|of|cape|island|lodg|no|thirty|f|a|m|former|belong|to|the
independ|order|of|odd|fellow|and|is|a|member|of|the|junior|order
unit|american|mechan|the|patriot|order|son|of|america|the|seven
wise|men|of|the|east|the|red|men|and|the|liion|leagu|and|is|an|honor
ari|member|of|the|fire|depart|mr|duke|has|made|mani|friend
through|his|connect|with|these|organ|and|has|exemplifi|the|fra
ternal|spirit|and|l|enevol|principl|on|which|the|societi|are|base
his|l|usi|career|has|ever|been|honor|and|credit|and|the|suc
cess|he|has|won|is|well|merit|although|he|has|been|depend|upon|his
own|efifort|from|an|earli|age|he|has|work|his|way|steadili|upward|over
come|all|obstacl|in|his|path|by|determin|effort|he|has|ever|realiz
that|the|possibl|of|the|present|and|not|of|the|futur|indic|the|path|to
sucess|and|follow|therein|he|has|gain|a|comfort|compet
i
c0gressi0x4l|district|of|vff|jersev|three hundred and ninety-seven
dr|s|f|ashcraft
this|gentleman|was|born|at|mullira|hill|jnst|across|the|street|from|his
present|home|on|the|19th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and|is|a|worthi|representa
tive|of|one|of|an|old|and|honor|famili|of|gloncest|counti|but|the|anc
tri|can|be|trace|still|further|back|to|coloni|day|when|german|emi
grant|of|the|name|came|to|the|shore|of|the|xew|orld|take|up|their
abod|in|massachusett|the|greatgrandfath|samuel|ashcraft|was|a
nativ|of|connecticut|and|was|the|first|of|the|name|to|locat|in|this|section
of|xew|jersey|the|year|of|his|arriv|was|one thousand, eight hundred|and|he|was|accompani
by|his|familv|includ|his|son|john|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|who
becam|one|of|the|most|prosper|and|well|known|busi|men|of|this|sec
tion|of|the|state|his|energi|were|devot|to|merchandis|and|the|lum
ber|trade|and|he|was|also|an|extens|peachgrow|of|delawar|maryland
his|oper|along|these|various|line|were|conduct|on|a|larg|scale|and
brought|to|him|handsom|financi|return
dr|j|h|ashcraft|the|father|of|our|suljject|was|for|fortythre|ear|a
distinguish|physician|of|iullica|hill|where|he|still|make|his|home|it
is|often|difiicult|to|tell|whether|eniron|or|inherit|tendenc|more
strong|influenc|a|career|but|perhaii|both|had|their|share|in|shape|the
destinv|of|him|whose|name|head|this|reiew|his|father|l|e|a|physician
as|a|child|he|becam|interest|in|the|scienc|and|practic|of|medicin|and
have|complet|his|literari|educ|he|began|studi|with|a|view|of
join|the|medic|fratern|he|prepar|for|his|chosen|call|in|the
jefferson|medic|colleg|of|philadelphia|and|on|the|complet|of|a|thor
ough|cours|was|graduat|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|for|fifteen|month|he|was
in|the|cooper|hospit|in|camden|and|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|came|to|alullica
hill|his|practic|has|been|vari|in|charact|and|oftentim|has|requir
the|greatest|skill|and|effici|excel|result|have|follow|his|effort
and|today|he|is|enjoy|a|liber|support|from|the|public|for|three|rear
he|serv|as|a|physician|to|the|poor|of|gloucest|countv|and|at|the|same
time|among|his|patron|were|number|mani|of|the|wealthiest|resid|of
this|section|of|the|state|he|hold|membershi|in|the|gloucest|countv
medic|societi|in|the|state|medic|societi|and|the|american|medic
associ|and|thus|keep|thoroughl|inform|concern|the|theori
and|fact|which|are|advanc|by|other|repres|of|the|profess
on|the|22d|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|the|doctor|marri|miss|mari|s|keithler|a
daughter|of|john|c|keithler|of|delawar|counti|pennsylvania|thev
occupi|an|enviabl|posit|in|social|circl|and|the|doctor|is|a|promin
mason|belong|to|swedesboro|lodg|xo|one hundred and fifty-seven|f|a|m|to|siloam
three hundred and ninety-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
chapter|no|nineteen|r|a|ai|and|to|cyren|commanderi|xo|seven|k|t|both
the|latter|in|camden|he|is|wide|and|favor|known|in|the|citi|of|his
nativ|and|has|a|happi|faculti|of|draw|his|friend|closer|to|him|as|the
year|pass|by
staci|l|pancoast
fortun|is|the|man|who|has|back|of|him|an|ancestri|honor|and
distinguish|and|happi|is|he|if|his|line|are|cast|in|harmoni|therewith
one|of|the|distinguish|famili|of|new|jersey|is|that|to|which|our|subject
belong|and|his|own|record|has|ad|new|laurel|to|the|prestig|of
those|who|bear|his|patronym|through|man|generat|the|line|of
descent|may|be|trace|the|first|of|the|name|of|whom|we|have|ani|record|is
john|pancoast|who|resid|in|england|where|his|peopl|were|note|manu
factur|of|potteri|repres|of|the|name|are|still|promin|con
nect|with|that|industri|in|anoth|countri|john|pancoast|sail|from
london|england|in|the|ship|mari|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-eight|and|land|at|philadelphia|he
was|elect|the|sherifif|of|the|london|tenth|district|which|extend|from
main|street|in|burlington|to|littl|egg|harbor|on|the|atlant|ocean|and
up|the|delawar|river|to|assanipink|creek|he|had|two|son|john|and
joseph|the|latter|was|the|father|of|edward|pancoast|who|was|born|in
burlington|counti|new|jersey|and|was|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|sub
ject|his|son|john|pancoast|was|born|near|clarksboro|new|jersey|and
marri|sarah|a|daughter|of|bradway|and|jane|waddington|keasbi|of
salem|counti|new|jersey|he|move|to|hancock|s|bridg|where|he|re
side|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|when|he|purchas|a|farm|at|the|north|end|of|mullica|hill
and|resid|there|until|death|his|son|israel|was|born|at|hancock|s|bridg
and|learn|the|tanner|s|trade|of|joseph|ogden|at|swedesboro|new|jer
sey|and|follow|that|pursuit|for|mani|year|at|mullica|hill|he|belong
to|the|societi|of|friend|which|religi|faith|was|that|of|his|ancestor|the
progenitor|john|pancoast|have|been|one|of|the|founder|of|the|friend
societi|in|mullica|hill|israel|pancoast|marri|miss|sarah|ann|lippen
cot|a|daughter|of|wallac|lippencot|of|haddonfield|new|jersey|they
becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|one|now|live|s|l|the|late|dr|d
p|pancoast|who|die|novemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|as|a|resid|of|mullica|hill
the|father|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|and|the|mother|was|call|to|her|final|rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
s|l|pancoast|attend|the|local|school|at|mullica|hill|where|his|entir
life|has|been|pass|for|he|was|born|in|the|hous|which|is|now|his|home|his
natal|day|be|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|he|also|pursu|his|studi|in|wilm
ton|delawar|and|then|enter|upon|his|busi|career|at|mullica|hill|in
coxgressiox|district|of|xejl|jersey|three hundred and ninety-nine
a|mercantil|establish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|he|went|to|philadelphia|where|he|re
main|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|when|he|return|to|mullica|hill|and|embark|in|mer
chandis|he|success|conduct|a|store|until|april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|when|he
resign|he|now|deal|in|lumber|coal|and|farmer|suppli|and|is|enjoy
ing|a|liber|patronag|which|has|come|to|him|as|the|result|of|his|enterpris
and|honor|busi|method
mr|pancoast|is|a|promin|citizen|of|new|jersey|and|has|been|esp
cialli|activ|in|polit|circl|he|is|a|stanch|advoc|of|the|republican
parti|and|was|first|call|to|offic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|when|he|was|chosen|the|township
collector|for|a|twoyear|term|later|he|was|the|township|committeeman
and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|was|elect|to|the|state|senat|to|fill|out|an|unexpir|term|he
was|afterward|chosen|for|the|full|term|of|three|year|and|was|a|veri|activ
influenti|and|capabl|member|of|the|upper|hous|he|has|given|his|sup
port|to|all|local|measur|advanc|for|the|public|good|has|aid|in|secur
railroad|and|other|improv|and|is|a|most|progress|and|valu|citi
zen|he|is|serv|as|a|vestrman|of|the|episcop|church|and|is|a|man|of
high|stand|in|the|communiti|respect|by|all|with|whom|he|has|been
brought|in|contact
villim|s|harker
the|fit|reward|of|a|well|spent|you|3right|busi|career|is|an|honor
retir|from|labor|that|one|ma|enjoy|it|fruit|in|after|year|for
thirti|year|mr|harker|was|a|worthi|repres|of|the|wholesal|inter
est|of|philadelphia|but|has|now|put|asid|busi|care|and|is|pass|the
even|of|his|life|at|his|pleasant|home|at|mullica|hill|the|prosper|that
reward|earnest|efifort|is|his|and|his|life|histori|stand|in|exemplif|of
the|truth|that|success|is|not|a|matter|of|genius|but|is|the|outcom|of|con
tinuous|labor|guid|by|sound|judgment
mr|harker|is|a|nativ|of|the|town|in|which|he|make|his|home|his
father|joseph|harker|was|born|in|swedesboro|and|was|a|son|of|joseph
harker|sr|the|former|engag|in|merchandis|carri|on|the|lead
busi|at|mullica|hill|he|was|also|a|lumber|merchant|at|this|place|and
was|account|one|of|it|most|enterpris|influenti|and|promin|citi
zen|he|was|honor|by|elect|to|public|offic|be|chosen|the|repr
sentat|of|his|district|in|the|state|legislatur|his|death|occur|in|i860
his|wife|who|bore|the|maiden|name|of|alic|horner|is|a|daughter|of|elijah
homer|and|is|still|live|at|the|advanc|age|of|seventynin|year|by
four hundred|biograph|histori|of|the|first
lier|marriag|she|becam|the|mother|of|six|children|two|of|whom|surviv
w|s|and|emma|the|latter|the|wife|of|i|o|acton|of|salem
our|subject|pursu|his|educ|in|the|mullica|hill|academi|and
throughout|his|busi|career|was|identifi|with|mercantil|interest|in
philadelphia|be|for|thirt|year|the|owner|of|an|extens|wholesal
notion|hous|in|that|cit|his|trade|extend|over|a|wide|area|and|his
liber|patronag|t|rought|to|him|a|handsom|incom|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|dispos
of|his|busi|and|has|sinc|live|retir|in|mullica|hill|his|former|success
enabl|him|to|secur|all|the|comfort|and|mani|of|the|luxuri|of|life
mr|harker|is|a|life|member|of|crescejit|lodg|xo|four hundred and ninety-three|f|m|of
philadelphia|in|which|he|has|held|a|numl|er|of|offic|his|life|has|been
pass|in|the|faith|discharg|of|all|duti|that|have|devolv|upon|him
and|his|sterl|worth|commend|him|to|the|confid|of|those|with|whom
he|has|been|associ|he|start|out|in|life|in|a|humbl|posit|steadili
work|his|way|upward|until|he|occupi|a|command|place|in|trade|cir
cles|and|today|he|is|enjomng|the|comfort|that|well|earn|wealth|can
secur
georg|v|smith
tale|of|heroism|hae|ijeen|the|theme|of|song|and|stori|sinc|the|earliest
age|and|deed|of|valor|will|neer|fail|to|awaken|the|admir|of|all|the
page|of|histori|are|illumin|by|the|record|of|those|who|upon|bloodv|battl
field|have|fought|for|their|countr|and|the|debt|of|gratitud|which|a|nation
owe|it|brave|soldier|can|never|be|repaid|everi|writer|delight|in|mak
ing|his|hero|a|brae|man|and|even|the|biograph|who|confin|himself|to
fact|and|doe|not|let|his|fanci|stray|into|the|realm|of|fiction|find|satisfac
tion|in|recount|the|histori|of|one|whose|loyalti|and|patriot|have|been
manifest|upon|the|field|of|battl|it|is|therefor|with|pleasur|that|we
undertak|the|task|of|prepar|the|life|record|of|colonel|georg|v|smith
whcj|in|respons|to|the|countri|s|call|for|troop|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|offer|his|servic
to|the|goernment|and|follow|the|star|and|stripe|until|the|wound|sus
tain|in|activ|engag|forc|him|to|put|asid|the|old|uniform|w|hicb
was|the|badg|of|his|loyalti|to|the|union
colonel|smith|was|liorn|in|cincinnati|februar|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|a|son|of
thoma|and|sophia|bigham|smith|the|ancestor|of|the|famili|to|which
he|belong|came|to|america|with|eord|fsaltimor|and|aid|in|found|the
coloni|of|maryland|there|the|patern|greatgrandfath|made|his|home
live|to|an|advanc|age|thoma|smith|the|grandfath|resid|on|the
eastern|shore|of|laryland|and|serv|throughout|the|revolutionari|war
congression|district|of|nbif|jersey|four hundred and one
hold|offici|rank|he|was|also|an|offic|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|was
extens|engag|in|farm|throughout|his|busi|career|and|live|to
the|advanc|age|of|one|hundr|and|four|year|the|famili|is|note|for
longev|sever|of|it|repres|have|been|centenarian
thoma|smith|the|father|of|colonel|smith|was|born|on|the|eastern
shore|of|maryland|and|was|a|comb|manufactur|carri|on|busi|in
that|line|until|his|death|which|occur|in|cincinnati|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|as|the|result
of|an|attack|of|cholera|he|conduct|an|extens|enterpris|for|that|day
and|was|a|man|of|consider|mean|his|wife|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|at|the|age|of
fortyf|year|in|his|famili|were|three|son|and|the|characterist|braveri
and|loyalti|of|the|famili|were|shown|by|their|servic|in|the|union|armi
william|h|the|eldest|was|a|carpent|and|resid|in|philadelphia|and|at
cape|may|after|the|inaugur|of|hostil|between|the|north|and|the
south|he|join|compani|b|one|hundr|and|sixth|pennsylvania|infantri
and|particip|in|all|the|engag|of|the|armi|of|the|potomac|up|to
and|includ|the|battl|of|gettysburg|on|the|3d|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|when|he|was
kill|he|fell|pierc|by|fie|bullet|and|thus|anoth|nobl|life|was|sacri
fice|that|the|union|might|stand|he|had|been|promot|to|the|rank|of
lieuten|and|in|mani|engag|had|manifest|mark|valor|his
wife|was|fanni|daughter|of|john|c|littl|and|they|had|one|son|william
h|who|marri|miss|pierson|georg|w|was|the|second|of|the|famili
jame|t|the|youngest|a|cigar|manufactur|and|painter|resid|in|cape
may|enlist|septemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|in|compani|a|seventh|regiment|new
jersey|volunt|which|serv|with|the|armi|of|the|potomac|in|the|second
jersey|brigad|jame|t|smith|was|in|the|recruit|servic|but|also|par
ticip|in|the|sevenday|battl|and|the|campaign|under|grant|and|was
bad|wound|in|the|hip|at|the|storm|of|petersburg
after|his|father|s|death|which|occur|dure|the|earli|boyhood|of|col
onel|smith|of|this|review|the|latter|togeth|with|the|other|member|of|the
famili|remov|to|philadelphia|and|he|was|educ|in|the|common|school
of|montgomerv|counti|pennsylvania|pursu|his|studi|in|one|of|the|old
time|log|schoolhous|with|it|slab|seat|puncheon|floor|and|primit|fur
nish|he|afterward|went|to|philadelphia|where|he|learn|the|brush
maker|s|trade|but|never|follow|that|occup|instead|he|took|up|the
painter|s|trade|and|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|remov|to|cape|alay|where|he|engag
in|paint|until|the|break|out|of|the|war|when|he|put|asid|all|person
consider|to|aid|in|defens|of|the|union|on|the|17th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one
he|becam|first|lieuten|of|the|cape|lay|island|home|guard|and|imm
diat|volunt|in|the|seventh|new|jersey|regiment|becom|a|mem
ber|of|companv|a|he|was|made|order|sergeant|on|the|15th|of|septem
four hundred and two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ber|of|that|year|and|for|three|year|serv|in|tlie|armi|of|tlie|potomac|iar
ticip|in|the|engag|at|fair|oak|and|the|sevenday|battl|and
at|this|time|was|the|sergeant|major|of|the|regiment|he|had|command|of
the|regiment|for|it|had|lost|all|it|commiss|offic|in|former|battl
for|this|he|was|recommend|for|his|first|commiss|as|second|lieuten
he|was|also|engag|at|the|battl|of|malvern|hill|where|the|loss|was|veri
heavi|but|he|brought|the|remnant|to|harrison|s|land|onli|two|hun
dred|and|fifti|of|the|entir|number|were|readi|for|duti|after|those|engag
ment|mr|smith|was|there|taken|i|will|and|it|was|believ|could|never|re
cover|but|eventu|he|regain|his|health|and|rejoin|his|regiment|at
alexandria|virginia|where|he|was|promot|second|lieuten|in|recogni
tion|of|his|meritori|conduct|on|the|battlefield|at|malvern|hill|he|par
ticip|in|the|battl|of|fredericksburg|where|he|was|injur|by|sprain
his|spine|which|has|result|in|spinal|diseas|he|was|then|promot|to
the|rank|of|first|lieuten|at|the|battl|of|chancellorsvill|his|regiment
captur|five|stand|of|color|there|he|was|again|promot|be|made
the|captain|of|compani|a|he|was|also|wound|there|a|ball|strike|him
in|the|chin|pierc|his|tongu|and|come|through|the|trachea|on|ac
count|of|disabl|thus|occas|he|was|honor|discharg|and|return
home|and|for|three|year|thereaft|he|was|unfit|for|activ|work
when|the|war|broke|out|he|was|an|alderman|of|cape|may|he|came
home|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|in|march|of|the|same|year|was|again|elect|to
the|citi|council|as|soon|as|abl|he|resum|work|at|the|painter|s|trade|and
carri|on|busi|along|that|line|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when|he|embark|in|busi
as|a|dealer|in|housefurnishmg|good|he|was|also|the|postmast|at
avalon|where|he|resid|for|five|year|after|which|he|remov|to|camden
where|he|conduct|a|groceri|until|the|injuri|which|he|sustain|in|the|civil
war|made|further|labor|imposs|and|he|return|to|cape|liay|where|he
has|sinc|live|retir
colonel|smith|has|never|fail|to|feel|a|deep|interest|in|militari|affair
and|organ|in|the|year|eighteen thousand, seven hundred and twelve|he|was|the|sergeantatarm|in|the
new|jersey|senat|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|he|organ|compani|h|of|the|sixth|new
jersey|nation|guard|becam|it|first|captain|was|made|the|major|of|the
regiment|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|was|elect|lieutenantcolonel|octob|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|occu
py|the|latter|posit|until|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|when|he|resign|on|account|of
fail|health|befor|us|as|we|write|lie|a|paper|call|the|cape|may|count
ocean|wave|which|was|publish|in|cape|may|and|bear|the|date|of|juli
twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|in|it|is|an|account|of|colonel|smith|s|promot|dure|the|cixil
war|it|say|mr|smith|receiv|his|commiss|as|second|lieuten|on
the|8th|inst|but|his|promot|from|june|14th|we|are|pleasefl|with|this
congression|district|of|nej|jiirsey|four hundred and three
promot|as|friend|smit|lia|l|een|a|good|faitli|offic|and|he|was|de
serv|of|this|advanc|wlien|the|sevent|left|trenton|he|was|order
sergeant|of|compani|a|afterward|he|was|promot|to|sergeantmajor|of|the
regiment|which|is|a|posit|of|honor|rather|than|pay|and|now|he|has|been
made|lieuten|some|time|sinc|he|receiv|a|sword|worth|thirtyf
dollar|with|the|follow|word|inscrib|upon|it|present|to|sergeant
major|georg|w|smith|by|his|captain|loui|r|francin|colonel
smith|is|now|an|esteem|and|valu|member|of|john|mecray|post|no|forty
g|a|r|at|cape|may|has|fill|various|offic|and|is|now|chaplain|of|the
post
on|the|2d|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|colonel|smith|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
ann|e|littl|a|daughter|of|john|c|littl|of|philadelphia|and|to|them
were|born|the|follow|children|blanch|s|who|becam|the|wife|of
charl|william|a|plaster|who|die|a|year|later|fanni|v|the|wife|of
charl|lang|a|broker|of|philadelphia|in|whom|she|has|three|children
marguerit|philip|rice|and|charl|h|salli|at|home|anni|e|the
wife|of|samuel|h|moor|the|station|agent|of|the|west|jersey|railroad
compani|at|cape|may|by|whom|she|has|a|daughter|helen|g|jenni|y
the|wife|of|john|c|littl|a|painter|and|the|proprietor|of|the|stockton|bath
hous|at|cape|may|by|whom|she|has|two|son|albert|and|georg|w
walter|r|who|is|engag|in|the|one|ic|cle|busi|at|cape|may|georg|b
w|superintend|of|the|miirphey|file|work|at|camden|new|jersey|who
marri|violet|newcomb|and|has|a|son|daniel|d|b|georg|w|who|die
at|the|age|of|five|year|and|charl|who|die|at|the|age|of|one|year|the
mother|of|these|children|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|at|the|age|of|fortyeight|year|and
colonel|smith|was|again|marri|april|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|his|second|union|be|with
ester|g|a|daughter|of|jame|c|fithian|and|catherin|grumm|fithian
her|father|was|born|in|philadelphia|lut|lie|in|new|york|he|was|the
owner|of|a|vessel|and|die|at|sea|of|yellow|ieer|eleven|of|the|famili|have
also|pass|away
in|his|polit|view|colonel|smith|is|a|stanch|republican|and|has|serv
as|a|member|of|the|board|of|health|of|cape|may|for|sever|year|he|has
long|been|a|lead|and|influenti|member|in|the|methodist|episcop
church|was|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|for|twentyf|year
besid|five|year|spent|in|aalon|and|for|a|quarter|of|a|centur_|he|was|a
member|of|the|choir|he|has|alway|taken|a|deep|and|activ|interest|in|the
work|of|the|church|and|his|upright|life|is|in|harmoni|with|his|profess
he|is|as|true|to|all|his|duti|of|privat|life|today|as|when|he|follow|the
star|and|stripe|upon|the|battlefield|of|the|south
four hundred and four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
jame|m|e|hildreth
in|buth|polit|and|busi|circl|mr|hildreth|is|known|throughout
new|jersc|his|has|been|a|career|commend|for|it|fidel|to|duti|in
all|life|s|relat|and|while|he|has|been|honor|by|his|fellow|men|with
public|offic|he|has|also|honor|the|state|and|district|which|he|repres
in|busi|he|is|the|soul|of|honor|and|integr|in|social|circl|he|is|affabl
and|courteous|and|his|whole|career|has|been|permeat|by|a|kindli|and
sympathi|that|have|arisen|from|a|person|interest|in|his|fellow|men
mr|hildreth|was|born|in|cape|ma|decemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|was|a|son
of|alvin|p|and|lydia|wale|hildreth|the|patern|grandfath|georg
hildreth|resid|at|cold|spring|new|jersey|and|was|a|pilot|on|the|dela
ware|rier|his|polit|support|was|given|to|the|democraci|and|he|serv
his|township|in|arious|local|offic|in|religi|belief|he|was|a|presb
terian|was|eri|activ|in|the|work|of|the|church|and|did|all|in|his|power|to
uplift|human|and|better|the|condit|of|human|life|he|had|four|chil
dren|alvin|p|eliza|e|daniel|and|jane|the|daughter|eliza|e|becam
the|wife|of|lafayett|miller
hon|alvin|p|hildreth|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|at|cold
spring|and|in|earli|life|engag|in|teach|school|he|complet|his|edu
cation|within|the|classic|wall|of|yale|colleg|and|was|a|man|of|strong|in
dividu|and|mark|intellectu|who|in|public|life|was|frequent|call
to|posit|of|promin|and|trust|for|some|time|he|engag|in|the|hotel
busi|in|cape|may|was|afterward|proprietor|of|the|metropolitan|hotel|in
washington|d|c|and|subsequ|return|to|cape|may|where|he|con
duct|one|of|the|lead|hotel|in|this|section|of|the|state|prompt|ener
getic|and|thorough|reliabl|his|reput|in|busi|circl|is|inde
enviabl|and|he|had|the|happi|faculti|of|win|warm|friendship|a
recogn|leader|in|democrat|circl|he|was|at|one|time|a|member|of|the
riparian|commiss|of|new|jersey|and|was|twice|elect|to|repres|his
district|in|the|general|assembl|of|the|state|in|local|affair|he|exercis
mark|influenc|and|his|cooper|was|alway|given|to|movement|and
measur|calcul|to|advanc|the|progress|and|welfar|of|the|communiti
his|mason|relat|were|with|cape|island|lodg|of|which|he|was|a
valu|member|he|marri|lydia|wale|a|repres|of|one|of|the
distinguish|famili|of|new|jersey|her|uncl|hon|e|l|b|ale5
was|at|one|time|a|judg|of|the|new|jersey|court|of|error|and|appeal|the
highest|tribun|in|the|state|and|other|of|the|famili|occupi|emin|posi
tion|in|public|life|mr|and|mrs|hildreth|becam|the|parent|of|four|chil
dren|howard|frank|h|jame|i|e|and|alvin|the|father|die|in|you
h
congression|district|of|vf|jersey|four hundred and five
gust|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|age|of|fiftysix|year|and|the|mother|pass|away|in|janu
ari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|at|the|earli|age|of|twentyeight|year
jame|m|e|hildreth|spent|the|first|twelv|year|of|his|life|in|his|nativ
citi|and|was|then|taken|to|mount|holli|where|he|complet|his|educ
in|the|mount|holli|academi|an|excel|institut|determin|to|enter
the|legal|profess|he|becam|a|student|in|the|law|oftic|of|hon|walter|a
barrow|his|uncl|and|also|studi|under|the|direct|of|hon|joseph|h
gaskel|now|the|presid|judg|of|ijurlington|counti|he|dilig|ap
pli|himself|to|the|task|of|master|the|principl|of|jurisprud|and|after
care|prepar|was|admit|to|practic|in|the|court|of|new|jersey|in
one|eighty-eight|one|he|then|return|to|his|nativ|citv|where|his|law|busi|has|steadili
increas|and|he|now|has|an|extens|and|distinct|repres|clientag
his|devot|to|his|client|is|proverbi|yet|it|is|said|that|he|never|advis
ani|one|to|enter|into|litig|except|to|right|a|wrong|he|is|an|indefati
gabl|and|earnest|worker|and|the|litig|with|which|he|has|been|con
nect|has|been|of|a|veri|import|charact|his|practic|has|ijeen|general
and|he|is|profici|in|everi|depart|of|the|law|and|with|his|keen
analyt|mind|his|broad|knowledg|of|the|principl|of|jurisprud|has
enabl|him|to|appli|to|the|oint|in|controversi|the|law|which|bear|most
close|upon|it|cite|author|and|preced|until|the|strength|of|his|case
is|clear|seen|by|judg|and|jurw|his|deduct|are|logic|anil|the|forc
of|his|argument|is|shown|in|the|man|verdict|favor|to|his|client|which
he|has|won|he|is|also|interest|in|real|estat|in|cape|may|where|he|own
valuabl|properti|he|was|instrument|in|organ|the|franklin|electr
light|compani|of|this|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|and|has|sinc|been|it|general|manag
he|is|a|director|of|the|new|jersey|trust|and|safe|deposit|compani|also|a
director|in|the|south|jersey|railway|compani|which|open|a|compet
line|to|cape|may|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|all|enterpris|movement|receiv|his|encour
agement|and|his|sul|stantial|aid|is|given|to|matter|and|measur|for|the
public|good|as|to|the|fratern|order|he|is|a|afason|heptasoph|work
man|and|redman
his|polit|promin|is|the|result|of|emin|fit|for|leadership
and|the|abilitv|which|he|has|sliown|in|the|discharg|of|the|duti|entrust
to|him|in|18s3|he|was|chosen|by|the|citi|council|for|the|oftic|of|solicitor
and|won|the|highest|commend|of|all|by|the|manner|in|which|he|per
form|the|duti|that|devolv|upon|him|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|chosen|as
the|chief|execut|of|the|citi|and|in|that|year|he|was|instrument|in|hold
ing|a|fourthofjuli|celebr|which|will|ever|be|memor|in|the|histori
of|the|citi|benjamin|harrison|expresid|of|the|unit|state|was|the
distinguish|guest|and|princip|s|jeaker|on|that|occas|and|mr|hildreth
4o6|biograph|histori|of|the|tirst
introduc|mr|harrison|and|presid|oer|the|ceremoni|in|a|manner|that
elicit|the|warmest|prais|of|lii|fellow|townsmen|mark|improv
was|made|in|the|citi|in|mani|line|dure|the|mayoralti|of|mr|hildreth|and
yet|so|econom|was|the|manag|of|the|busi|affair|of|cape|lay
that|each|taxpay|was|save|fourteen|per|cent|of|the|usual|net|amount|of
his|tax|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|the|citi|council|again|elect|mr|hildreth|to|the|ofific|of
citi|solicitor|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was|elect|the|mayor|to|those|who|are|ac
quaint|with|the|man|it|is|needless|to|say|that|his|administr|was|pro
gressi|and|benefici|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|a|promin|candid|for|congr
sional|honor|in|the|first|district|and|though|he|did|not|seek|the|nomin
he|receiv|the|most|flatter|vote|of|eightyon|ballot|he|is|now|promi
nentli|spoken|of|by|his|friend|as|a|candid|for|congress|in|one thousand, nine hundred|he|is
an|earnest|champion|of|the|principl|of|the|republican|parti|and|though
he|has|held|local|posit|he|is|by|no|mean|a|politician|in|the|common
accept|sens|of|an|oflficeseek|he|has|been|a|close|student|of|govern
mental|problem|and|he|ever|place|the|welfar|of|the|state|and|nation|be
fore|person|aggranrliz|mr|hildreth|is|an|activ|member|of|the
cape|may|citi|athlet|club|which|was|organ|august|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and
as|a|member|of|it|director|he|was|associ|with|some|of|the|most
emin|and|distinguish|citizen|of|philadelphia|and|cape|may|he|was
elect|to|the|ofific|of|secretari|and|attorney|and|lia|been|a|promin|fac
tor|in|the|success|conduct|of|the|afyair|of|the|club|this|club|organ
and|foster|the|onc|famous|cape|may|base|ball|club|which|brought|such
promin|to|this|citi
on|the|one|2th|of|xoxemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|mr|hildreth|was|imit|in|marriag|to
miss|matti|o|mecray|a|daughter|of|jeremiah|mecray|and|they|now|have
one|daughter|man|m|the|parent|are|member|of|the|presbyterian
church|and|sinc|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|mr|hildreth|has|serv|as|truste|and|trea
urer|of|the|church|he|is|a|repres|american|citizen|energet|in
busi|courteous|in|social|life|and|loyal|to|his|duti|of|citizenship|and|to
his|nativ|land|though|one|of|the|busiest|of|men|he|alway|has|a|smile|of
welcom|for|all|gracious|give|his|time|to|those|who|ask|it|and|therebi
constantlv|ad|to|his|long|list|of|friend
walter|s|leam|m|d|d|d|s
among|the|romin|men|of|the|state|of|new|jerscx|none|occupi|a
posit|of|relativeh|greater|import|in|the|communiti|in|which|the
resid|than|dr|w|s|leam|who|was|formerlv|state|senat|from|his
coxgressiox|district|of|xeif|jersey|four hundred and seven
district|and|is|now|serv|as|the|citi|treasur|of|cape|may|the|common
opinion|has|for|some|time|been|that|american|pohtic|were|probabl|never
so|corrupt|as|at|the|present|day|that|the|affair|of|the|countri|are|in|the
hand|of|profession|politician|who|are|work|for|their|own|interest|and
not|for|the|good|of|the|major|and|it|is|suc|men|as|the|one|whose|name
head|this|record|that|restor|the|public|confid|and|renew|the|faith
that|we|shall|have|wise|legisl|and|just|law|brought|about|by|honoralil
men|with|pure|polit|record|and|devot|to|their|countri|s|interest|and
not|to|their|own|aggrandiz
the|doctor|was|born|in|cape|may|counti|march|four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|his|parent
be|jonathan|f|and|eliza|h|bennett|learn|he|pursu|his|educa
tion|in|the|mayvill|academi|and|in|the|high|school|of|new|york|citi|and
on|the|complet|of|his|literari|cours|began|prepar|for|a|profession
career|as|a|student|in|the|pennsylvania|dental|colleg|in|which|he|was
graduat|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|is|also|a|graduat|of|the|jefiferson|medi
cal|colleg|in|philadelphia|of|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|in|the|centenni|year|he
open|an|offic|in|cape|may|court|hous|where|he|still|maintain|his|den
tal|parior|although|he|has|made|his|home|in|the|citi|of|cape|may|sinc
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|enjoy|a|liber|patronag|by|reason|of|his|superior|skill|and
abil|and|has|a|fine|offic|equip|with|the|latest|improv|instrument
and|equip|for|the|success|conduct|of|a|dental|practic
while|dr|leam|has|gain|prestig|in|his|chosen|call|howev
he|is|probabl|more|wide|known|in|connect|with|his|public|servic|he
has|alway|been|a|close|student|of|the|pohtic|question|and|issu|of|the
day|and|befor|he|had|attain|legal|age|the|nomin|for|state|senat
was|tender|him|he|was|a|member|of|the|lower|hous|of|the|assembl|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|serv|in|the|senat|and|in|the|latter|year|re
ceiv|the|vote|of|his|parti|for|presid|of|the|senat|and|lack|onli|one
vote|of|be|elect|he|was|a|recogn|leader|in|republican|rank|and
his|influenc|was|veri|mark|he|has|sere|for|three|year|as|the|presi
dent|of|the|citi|council|of|cape|may|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|was|elect|the|treasur
of|the|citi|which|posit|he|is|now|accept|fill|he|has|long|been
recogn|as|an|import|factor|in|polit|circl|and|his|patriot|spirit
has|been|manifest|in|his|loyal|support|of|mani|measur|for|the|general
good
with|various|busi|social|and|moral|interest|dr|leam|has|also
ijeen|identifi|he|was|at|one|time|a|member|of|the|board|of|trade|and|is
a|member|and|director|of|the|mechan|labor|build|loan|asso
ciation|at|cape|mav|court|hous|he|hold|membership|in|the|ancient
order|of|unit|workmen|and|the|improv|order|of|heptasoph|and|is
4o8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
an|activ|and|zealous|member|of|the|baptist|church|in|which|he|is|now|serv
ing|as|a|deacon|the|school|system|find|in|him|a|stanch|advoc|and|he
did|effect|servic|in|it|interest|while|serv|as|a|member|of|the|board
of|educ|of|cape|may|court|hous
the|doctor|has|been|twice|marri|he|first|wed|mari|h|holm
a|daughter|of|judg|richard|holm|the|judg|of|the|court|of|common
plea|of|cape|may|counti|on|the|30th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mrs|leam
die|at|the|age|of|twentyfour|year|leav|a|daughter|name|nelli|for
his|second|wife|the|doctor|chose|miss|rebecca|h|a|daughter|of|illiam
j|bennett|a|pilot|of|cape|may|their|wed|was|celebr|decemb
twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|has|been|bless|with|two|children|rebecca|and|henrietta
to|the|doctor|and|his|wife|is|extend|the|hospit|of|the|best|home|in
cape|may|and|they|occupi|an|enviabl|posit|in|social|circl|he|in
spire|strong|person|friendship|and|has|the|happi|faculti|of|draw|his
friend|closer|to|him|as|the|year|pass|by
tame|m|roe
a|retir|farmer|resid|in|paulsboro|j|m|roe|was|born|in|ood
buri|gloucest|count|march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|and|is|descend|from|good|old
revolutionari|stock|the|famili|is|of|scotch|lineag|and|was|found|in
the|new|world|in|coloni|day|henri|roe|the|grandfath|of|our|sub
ject|was|born|in|gloucest|counti|and|when|the|oppress|of|england
brought|on|the|war|of|the|revolut|he|loyal|aid|in|the|struggl|for
independ|his|son|robert|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|wood
buri|and|becam|a|hat|manufactur|of|his|nativ|town|where|he|carri|on
busi|for|a|number|of|year|his|last|day|howev|were|pass|in
mount|ephraim|where|his|death|occur|he|marri|ann|hurley|a
daughter|of|jame|hurley|of|camden|counti|and|she|has|also|pass|away
in|their|famili|were|five|children|but|onlv|two|are|now|live|miriam|and
j|m
the|latter|pursu|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|woodburi|and
subsequ|engag|in|teach|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|he|remov|to|green
wich|township|and|for|mani|year|devot|his|energi|to|farm|his|well
direct|effort|bring|to|him|a|comfort|compet|he|yet|own
seventyf|acr|of|land|which|he|rent|his|busi|affair|have|ever
claim|his|close|attent|and|his|dilig|and|capabl|manag
brought|him|a|well|deserv|success|he|was|the|soul|of|honor|in|all|trade
transact|and|demand|that|other|should|treat|him|as|fair|as|he|treat
them
coxgression|district|of|xeiv|jersey|four hundred and nine
for|mani|year|mr|roe|has|been|promin|connect|with|the|pubhc
interest|have|for|fifteen|year|serv|as|justic|of|the|peac|while|for
some|time|he|was|the|collector|of|his|township|and|settl|mani|estat|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|was|chosen|freehold|fill|that|posit|for|three|year
on|the|30th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|mr|roe|marri|miss|lydia|a|miller
of|greenwich|township|they|have|four|children|anna|the|wife|of|i|g
cox|a|resid|of|paulsboroj|elizabeth|the|wife|of|georg|c|law|also|of
paulsboro|emili|and|susan|m|the|wife|of|j|a|reinhart|of|paterson
new|jersey|the|father|of|these|children|was|a|member|of|the|odd|fellow
societi|he|has|now|pass|the|psalmist|s|span|of|threescor|year|and|ten
and|has|put|asid|the|more|arduous|duti|and|care|of|life|rest|in|the
enjoy|of|the|fruit|of|his|former|toil|his|life|has|been|well|spent|and|all
who|know|him|admir|and|respect|him|for|his|genuin|worth
georg|r|richardson
on|a|farm|in|logan|township|gloucest|counti|resid|georg|r
richardson|who|is|account|one|of|the|lead|agriculturist|of|this|com
munitv|he|was|born|in|new|castl|counti|delawar|on|the|21st|of|feb
ruari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|is|a|son|of|carmen|and|maria|riday|richardson|the|for
mer|a|nativ|of|new|jersey|and|the|latter|of|pennsylvania|they|were|of
english|and|german|descent|respect|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|the|father|remov
with|his|famili|to|marcus|hook|pennsylvania|where|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|at|the
age|of|fiftysix|year|his|wife|long|surviv|him|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|at
the|age|of|eightyf|year|their|children|were|mari|ann|wife|of|albert
sutton|of|marcus|hook|pennsylvania|georg|r|carmen|who|die|in
virginia|when|about|sixti|year|of|age|john|who|die|at|marcus|hook
when|fiftyeight|year|of|age|and|one|or|two|children|who|die|in|infanc
the|educ|privileg|which|were|afford|to|mr|richardson|were
quit|limit|dure|his|earli|youth|he|attend|school|for|about|three
month|in|the|year|but|when|veri|young|becam|connect|with|the|oyster
fisheri|and|was|thus|engag|for|fifteen|year|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|has|occupi
his|present|farm|which|is|a|portion|of|the|john|d|norton|estat|and|is|lo
cate|in|the|section|of|the|township|known|as|nortonvill|he|prosecut
his|labor|with|dilig|and|his|effort|bring|to|him|a|good|financi|return
on|the|29th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|mr|richardson|was|unit|in|marriag
to|miss|sarah|jane|norton|a|daughter|of|john|d|norton|of|logan|town
ship|she|die|june|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|age|of|sixtyf|year|and|mani
friend|throughout|the|communitv|mourn|her|loss|in|their|famili|were
4io|biografh|histori|of|the|first
five|children|georg|henri|who|die|at|the|age|of|eight|vear|carmen
h|a|streetcar|conductor|of|pliiladelphia|wlio|marri|emma|crispen|and
had|a|daughter|iola|and|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|wed|effi
kelley|emma|l|the|wife|of|john|d|garrison|of|bridgeton|new|jersey
by|whom|she|has|a|daughter|bertha|ida|j|the|wife|of|stoke|hunt|a|far
mer|of|logan|township|by|vhom|she|iia|fie|cliildren|harold|ethel
grace|clifiord|and|foster|and|william|c|who|is|farm|with|his|father
and|who|marri|lidia|mccullough|a|daughter|of|william|mccullough|of
swedesboro|by|whom|he|has|two|children|howard|h|and|sarah|m
mr|richardson|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of|the|men|and
measur|of|the|republican|parti|and|he|and|his|famili|are|member|of
center|squar|methodist|episcop|church|his|life|has|been|an|honor
and|upright|one|character|by|earnest|devot|to|all|the|duti|of|citizen
ship|and|wherev|he|is|known|he|has|won|the|confid|and|good|will|of
those|whom|he|has|met
arthur|h|townsexd
arthur|harrison|townsend|a|respect|resid|of|millvill|wear|worth
ili|the|honor|familv|name|of|his|ancestor|who|for|manv|generat|have
resid|in|this|countri|the|famili|have|been|found|here|in|coloni
day|the|townsend|motto|is|haec|generi|inceremento|fide|ennobl
for|their|fidel|a|coat|of|arm|that|was|brought|to|this|countri|about
one thousand, seven hundred|is|now|in|possess|of|miss|r|p|townsend|the|townshend|and
townsend|are|all|descend|from|the|same|origin|stock|thoma|town
send|the|origin|american|emigr|sail|from|london|to|boston|and
took|up|his|resid|in|lynn|counti|massachusett|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-five|he|was|a|son
of|henr|townsend|and|the|grandson|of|sir|robert|townsend|the|second
son|of|anoth|sir|robert|the|townsend|are|of|mix|saxon|and|norman
lineag|and|the|famili|is|one|of|great|antiqu|in|the|counti|of|norfolk
england|jonathan|townsend|one|of|the|ancestor|of|our|subject|in|the
direct|line|marri|huldah|newton|and|they|had|seven|children|jona
than|martin|salli|benjamin|nanci|polli|and|elizabeth|all|of|whom
were|bom|in|new|salem|massachusett|after|the|death|of|the|father|the
mother|marri|daniel|curti|and|had|a|daughter|by|her|second|marriag
jonathan|townsend|the|son|of|jonathan|and|huldah|wed|mar|haskel
and|they|had|two|children|for|his|second|wife|he|wed|oliv|phinney
who|was|born|septem1|er|twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|tlieir|children|were|salli|jonathan
who|was|born|may|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|lzial|sewel|oliv|huldah
unah|elvira|hosea|diadania|and|adin
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and eleven
jonathan|townsend|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was|born|in|broom
counti|canada|on|the|14th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|was|a|son|of|eliphalet
townsend|who|was|a|shoemak|b|trade|and|is|now|live|retir|in|hyde
park|vermont|his|life|has|been|a|quiet|and|unassum|one|and|though
he|has|sought|not|notorieti|he|has|won|the|respect|of|his|fellow|men
zealous|member|of|the|seventhday|adventist|church|he|is|a|great|bibl
student|and|a|conscienti|christian|man|he|marri|elizabeth|french
and|they|had|seven|children|georg|r|anna|t|who|was|born|march|twenty
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|and|die|mav|three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|mari|a|who|was|born|march|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|elmira
who|was|born|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|die|januari|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|arthur|h|born
novemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|isadora|m|born|june|i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|and|cecelia|a|born
august|twenty-eight|one hundred and eighty-five|one|dure|the|civil|war|rthur|h|townsend|of|this|famili
enlist|in|the|union|armi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|was|captur|by|the|rebel|in|septemb
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|die|in|the|prison|at|salisburi|north|carolina|on|the|22d|of|no
vember|of|the|same|year
georg|riley|townsend|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|broom
counti|canada|august|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|when|twenti|year|of|age|respond
to|his|countri|s|call|for|troop|enlist|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|in|the|seventh|regiment
of|vermont|volunt|which|was|assign|to|the|depart|of|the|gulf
and|oper|in|florida|and|louisiana|he|liecam|a|privat|detect|and
spi|in|the|servic|of|general|asbeth|and|was|sever|wound|in|a|skirmish
by|a|bavonet|which|was|thrown|at|him|and|pierc|his|hand|draw|the
weapon|he|threw|it|at|the|owner|kill|him|on|numer|occas|he
distinguish|himself|by|cool|and|dare|and|at|all|time|his|servic
was|most|commend|at|one|time|a|certain|captain|was|will|not|to|ignor
the|regul|of|give|the|countersign|and|mr|townsend|warn|him
that|he|would|shoot|his|mule|from|under|him|if|he|again|disobey|the|re
quirement|not|long|afterward|the|demand|was|again|violat|by|the|cap
tain|who|attempt|to|dash|by|mr|townsend|but|the|latter|shot|and|kill
his|mule|it|is|probabl|that|after|that|he|had|no|more|troubl|with|the
offic|after|the|war|he|was|marri|to|francelia|d|ober|and|to|them
were|liorn|five|children|name|rthur|h|who|is|the|eldest|of|the|famili
grace|r|who|was|born|novemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|marri|bertram|s|ward
by|whom|she|had|three|children|frank|e|born|octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|minni
e|born|juli|two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|rthur|w|born|januari|twenty-six|i89i|and|die|young
netti|born|octob|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|was|marri|novemb|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|to|william
emerson|myrtl|i|born|decemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|was|marri|novemb|thirty
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|to|olin|v|baili|and|maud|e|born|may|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|was|marri|juli|nine
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|to|william|f|schofield
arthur|harrison|townsend|whose|name|introduc|this|review|was|orn
four hundred and twelve|biograph|histori|of|the|first
februari|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|in|johnson|lamoill|counti|vermont|in|earli|life|he
left|home|to|make|his|own|way|in|the|world|and|whatev|success|he|has
achiev|is|the|result|of|his|own|effort|when|twentysix|ear|of|age|he
establish|the|mountain|mirror|at|lake|placid|new|york|continu|it
public|for|some|time|subsequ|he|was|connect|with|the|bridg
ton|pioneer|for|two|or|three|year|and|afterward|becam|a|report|on|the
lillvill|republican|as|well|as|the|advertis|manag|a|vear|later|he|was
made|the|general|manag|and|editor|of|the|millvill|republican|and|daili
report|the|paper|known|as|the|millvill|republican|was|establish|in
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|the|daili|report|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|these|were|consolid
under|the|name|of|the|millvill|republican|daili|report|as|an|ind
pendent|republican|journal|under|the|capabl|manag|of|mr|ton
send|this|paper|has|prove|a|profit|invest|when|he|assum|charg
it|busi|was|be|carri|on|at|a|loss|of|seventyf|dollar|per|week
but|he|soon|place|it|upon|a|pay|basi|and|the|busi|is|now|profit
and|is|constant|increas|the|daili|paper|has|a|circul|of|one|thou
sand|copi|and|the|week|which|is|issu|everi|friday|has|a|circul
of|seventeen|hundr|copi|a|larg|job|print|busi|is|also|carri
on|the|paper|is|a|neat|and|well|edit|journal|devot|larg|to|local|in
terest|and|to|the|promot|of|the|various|enterpris|and|movement|which
contribut|to|the|progress|of|the|citi|along|materi|social|educ|and
moral|line
mr|townsend|is|also|the|presid|of|the|millvill|board|of|trade|and
was|larg|instrument|in|it|organ|issu|the|announc|which
call|the|meet|for|this|purpos|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|the|board|has|been|veri
success|in|it|work|owe|larg|to|the|effort|of|mr|townsend|it|has
been|effect|in|secur|the|continu|of|import|industri|in|mill
vill|and|of|establish|other|at|this|point|mr|townsend|is|also|the|local
secretari|and|treasur|of|the|mutual|build|loan|bank|of|camden|he
is|the|presid|of|the|cumberland|counti|wheelmen|and|labor|earnest
and|with|result|in|secur|the|new|bicycl|jiath|which|was|built|from|cum
berland|to|hunter|s|mill|thus|shorten|the|rout|from|philadelphia|to|the
sea|by|twenti|mile
social|mr|townsend|is|connect|with|the|improv|order|of|red
ien|of|whom|he|was|chief|of|the|record|three|year|with|the|independ
order|of|odd|fellow|and|the|knight|of|the|mystic|chain|for|seeral
year|he|has|taken|an|activ|interest|in|music|matter|in|the|citi|lie
quit|profici|in|both|instrument|and|vocal|music|he|has|been|a|mem
ber|of|the|choir|of|the|first|presbyterian|church
on|the|6th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|mr|townsend|was|marri|to|flora|ella
coxgressfox|district|of|xeif|jersey|four hundred and thirteen
seoua|and|to|them|were|born|two|children|ida|liy|who|was|born|sep
tember|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|and|die|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|and|georg|arthur|who|die
in|earli|childhood|mr|and|mrs|townsend|occupi|lead|posit|in
social|circl|and|enjoy|the|warm|regard|of|mani|friend|his|courteous|and
genial|manner|has|made|him|veri|popular|and|he|well|deserv|representa
tion|in|the|histori|of|his|adopt|counti
harri|guest
harri|guest|one|of|the|most|popular|young|busi|men|of|oo|ls
town|is|a|nativ|of|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|his|birth|have|occur
decemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|his|parent|mattison|and|susanna|black|guest
likewis|were|born|in|that|counti|but|the|patern|grandfath|of|our|sub
ject|owen|guest|was|born|pass|his|entir|life|and|die|in|the|villag|of
auburn|salem|counti|his|death|occur|when|he|was|in|his|eightysecond
year|in|his|earli|manhood|mattison|guest|was|occupi|in|agricultur
pursuit|but|later|he|turn|his|attent|to|build|and|contract|in
which|line|of|endeavor|he|was|veri|success|he|resid|in|swedesboro
from|his|vouth|until|his|death|and|dure|all|this|period|was|an|activ|mem
ber|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|of|that|place|his|use|and|happi
life|was|brought|to|a|close|on|the|6th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|when|he|was|in|the
sixtyseventh|year|of|his|age
harri|guest|is|the|twin|brother|of|fanni|the|wife|of|john|fish|and
his|other|brother|and|sister|are|caleb|c|and|anna|who|have|pass
awav|nichola|j|joseph|w|owen|l|and|martha|the|wife|of|atley
shute|they|were|all|rear|upon|a|farm|and|were|earli|taught|to|practic
upright|and|fair|toward|their|fellow|men|and|to|observ|those|prin
cipl|of|conduct|which|are|to|be|foimd|in|the|good|citizen
have|complet|his|publicschool|educ|at|swedesboro|harri
guest|began|farm|in|earnest|remain|there|engag|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|when
he|accept|a|posit|with|c|c|hugh|druggist|at|the|corner|of|race|and
eighth|street|philadelphia|later|he|enter|the|employ|of|dr|goodwin
whose|place|of|busi|was|at|the|corner|of|clinton|and|fifth|street|in|the
same|citi|and|there|he|continu|to|perfect|himself|as|a|pharmacist|at
length|he|was|graduat|in|the|philadelphia|colleg|of|pharmaci|and|made
a|credit|show|befor|the|pennsylvania|and|new|jersey|state|examin
ing|board|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|came|to|woodstown|where|he|was|first|employ
bv|f|p|harri|the|druggist|who|sold|out|alout|a|year|later|to|dr|frost
this|store|well|known|as|the|east|avenu|pharmaci|pass|into|the|hand
four hundred and fourteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|it|present|owner|our|subject|on|the|22d|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|has|not
onli|maintain|it|previous|reput|of|be|one|of|the|lead|drug
store|of|the|counti|but|by|ad|to|his|larg|stock|from|time|to|time|and
by|his|genial|accommod|way|has|won|the|good|will|and|patronag|of
the|public
fratern|air|guest|is|identifi|with|the|independ|order|of|odd
fellow|belong|to|woodstown|lodg|no|one hundred and fifty-eight|he|also|hold|mem
l|ership|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|in|which|he|is|a|valu|worker
be|the|secretari|of|the|sundayschool|and|also|of|the|new|jersey|state
sundayschool|associ
on|the|2ist|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|mr|guest|wed|ami|r|markley|of
camden|new|jersey|she|is|a|daughter|of|charl|and|kate|folwal
markley|and|by|her|marriag|has|becom|the|mother|of|three|promis
littl|one|name|respect|warren|roger|helen|markley|and|elsi
may|she|too|is|a|member|of|the|methodist|church|of|this|place|and|abli
second|all|of|her|husband|s|endeaor|to|promot|peac|lo|e|and|happi
upon|the|earth
tosh|c|a|ioor
joshua|loor|was|born|in|salem|count|v|new|jersey|octob|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three
a|son|of|allen|and|sarah|dean|moor|here|sever|generat|of|the
famili|had|been|born|befor|him|the|name|moor|is|said|to|have|origin
ate|as|a|surnam|in|a|highland|clan|of|scotland|and|to|hae|been|an|expr
sion|of|the|idea|of|great|in|prowess|and|repris|down|through|the
time|of|the|covenant|and|the|scene|in|which|poperi|was|dealt|tell
blow|which|have|becom|histor|men|of|the|name|were|promin|alway
in|the|van|of|protestant|dure|the|memor|difficulti|of|the|day
of|jame|h|of|england|ii|of|scotland|jacob|moor|a|nativ|of|the|north
of|ireland|had|troubl|in|his|home|countri|and|earli|in|the|eighteenth|cen
turi|not|mani|year|after|the|death|of|the|king|which|occur|in|one thousand, seven hundred and one|he
emigr|to|america|and|settl|on|long|island|from|there|he|came|to
new|jersey|locat|in|the|north|cohansey|precinct|within|the|present
boundari|of|cumberland|counti|w|here|he|soon|marri|abigail|peck|and
in|due|time|bought|a|tract|of|land|a|part|of|the|vass|survey|it|is|lieliev
from|daniel|cox|of|burlington|this|land|is|at|the|head|of|beetl|run|and
on|the|north|sitl|of|that|stream|which|empti|into|the|lower|branch|of|stoe
creek|after|the|organ|of|cumberland|counti|jacob|moor|s|home
stead|was|in|hopewel|township|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|he|built|a|larg|log|dwell|on
this|land
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and fifteen
jacob|and|abigail|peck|aloor|had|six|children|name|john|azariah
joseph|martha|bathsheba|and|mari|the|last|name|die|young|bath
sheba|marri|preston|hannah|and|bore|him|a|son|the|late|dr|charl
hannah|of|salem|new|jersey|joseph|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred|after|have|been|for|a
number|of|year|a|rule|elder|in|the|deerfield|church|azariah|was|a|weaver
and|by|good|busi|method|gain|a|substanti|posit|financi|he
was|an|ardent|whig|and|after|the|struggl|for|american|independ|began
enlist|and|serv|as|a|soldier|in|the|revolutionari|armi|he|was|a|veri
method|man|of|excel|charact|and|judgment|and|serv|long|as
justic|of|the|peac|his|chariti|was|practic|and|unceas|he|never
marri|and|his|home|on|the|west|side|of|the|friesburg|road|a|mile|abov
shiloh|was|presid|over|by|his|sister|martha|he|lie|in|the|old|presbi
terian|churchyard|at|greenwich
john|moor|a|son|of|jacob|and|abigail|peck|moor|die|februari
twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred|he|also|fought|for|liberti|in|the|patriot|armi|of|america|he
settl|half|a|mile|east|of|his|brother|azariah|and|marri|rachel|moor|of
a|famili|of|moor|not|close|relat|to|his|own|and|had|eleven|children
eight|of|whom|were|rear|to|manhood|and|womanhood|and|five|of|whom
left|descend|four|of|these|descend|all|greatgrandson|of|john
moor|volunt|in|the|militari|servic|of|the|unit|state|in|the|war|of
the|rebellion|one|from|pennsylvania|die|in|the|servic|one|from|ohio
one|from|iowa|and|anoth|john|moor|tyler|from|cumberland|counti
new|jersey|the|last|mention|also|gave|up|his|life|for|his|countri
lewi|a|son|of|john|and|rachel|moor|aloor|marri|susanna|shull
and|they|had|five|children|ruth|jacob|lydia|elmer|and|eliza|ruth
marri|archibald|minch|jacob|die|unmarri|and|when|compar
young|lydia|marri|theophilus|p|davi|and|had|three|children|ruth
m|samuel|b|and|leonard|w|elmer|marri|kitti|b|west|and|they
have|two|children|lewi|and|marietta|moor|azariah|anoth|son|of
john|and|rachel|moor|moor|marri|lydia|dare|their|children|were
name|david|abigail|enoch|josiah|henrietta|georg|elizabeth|and
robert|david|marri|deborah|cook|and|die|without|issu|abigail
marri|david|veal|and|had|children|who|were|name|david|d|lydia|m
enoch|henri|and|franci|enoch|marri|elizabeth|a|daughter|of|hosea
moor|who|bore|him|the|follow|name|children|david|georg|and
hosea
robert|also|a|son|of|john|and|rachel|moor|moor|was|twice|mar
rie|his|first|wife|was|emili|bovan|they|had|a|daughter|carolin|who
marri|illiam|riley|his|second|wife|was|elizabeth|coke|they|had
children|name|robert|azariah|richard|john|winfield|and|elizabeth
four hundred and sixteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
robert|has|been|a|member|of|the|xew|jersey|legislatur|two|or|three|time
and|has|held|other|import|offic|john|still|anoth|son|of|john|and
rachel|moor|moor|marri|phoeb|moor|his|cousin|and|they|had
two|children|mari|m|and|emili|mari|m|die|in|young|womanhood
unmarri|emili|was|twice|marri|georg|a|son|of|samuel|and|rachel
tyler|was|her|first|husband|they|had|one|son|john|moor|tyler|abov
refer|to|charl|seeley|was|her|second|husband|by|whom|there|was
no|issu
samuel|moor|the|grandfath|of|joshua|moor|was|a|nativ|of|salem
new|jersey|and|was|for|mani|year|a|prosper|farmer|of|gloucest
counti|new|jersey|where|he|die|at|the|age|of|eightyeight|year|he|had
four|son|and|three|daughter|thoma|who|was|well|known|in|pile
grove|and|samuel|of|gloucest|counti|are|dead|keturah|marri
clement|french|of|gloucest|counti|rachel|now|dead|was|the|wife|of
aaron|edward|atlant|the|other|tlaughter|is|mrs|benjamin|f|dean
samuel|moor|s|son|allen|moor|the|father|of|joshua|was|born|at|salem
and|was|a|farmer|in|gloucest|counti|from|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|to
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|live|in|pile|grove|township|where|he|own|a|larg|farm|and|in
the|year|last|mention|he|remov|to|woodstown|where|he|live|in|retir
ment|until|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|at|the|age|of|eightyon|notwithstand|he
was|of|a|retir|disposit|and|never|sought|promin|in|ani|way|sev
eral|import|offic|were|thrust|upon|him|by|his|fellowcitizen|who|had
the|most|implicit|faith|in|his|integr|and|abil|he|was|a|freehold|a
member|of|the|state|legislatur|chairman|of|the|board|of|truste|of|the|alm
hous|board|and|long|an|influenti|member|of|the|execut|committe|of
his|township|and|from|time|to|time|he|also|fulfil|other|respons
trust|he|marri|sarah|the|daughter|of|alexand|dean|a|nati|of
salem|counti|and|one|of|the|promin|farmer|and|citizen|of|pile|grove
township|they|had|six|children|onli|one|of|whom|is|live|those|who
are|dead|were|name|rebecca|amelia|sabina|lorenz|and|josephin|sarah
dean|moor|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|age|fortyeight|year
joshua|moor|was|educ|in|the|common|school|of|gloucest|counti
he|help|on|his|father|s|homestead|until|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|when|he|went
to|philadelphia|and|learn|the|trade|of|paperhang|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|return
to|new|jersey|and|locat|at|woodstown|where|he|enter|upon|a|busi
as|general|merchant|with|nathan|thorn|as|a|partner|this|enterpris|was
a|notabl|success|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|mr|thorn|retir|from|it|sinc|which|time
mr|moor|has|been|the|sole|proprietor|he|is|a|popular|merchant|and|has
a|larg|and|constant|grow|patronag|which|extend|to|all|of|wood
town|s|tributar|territorv
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and seventeen
mr|moor|marri|marion|tliorn|a|daughter|of|nathan|and|rachel
thorn|of|woodstown|april|two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|they|have|two|daughter|rachel
lippincott|moor|and|sarah|franc|moor|who|were|educ|at|bacon
academi|and|have|taken|up|educ|work|the|former|as|an|instructor
in|kindergarten|method|in|bacon|academi|the|latter|as|the|princip|of
the|friend|school|at|horsham|montgomeri|counti|pennsylvania
nathan|and|rachel|thorn|die|leav|three|children|marion|mrs
moor|morri|thorn|a|govern|employe|at|aashington|d|c|and
emma|who|marri|joseph|balleng
allen|w|miller
allen|w|miller|is|a|son|of|samuel|s|and|mari|e|madara|miller|and
is|one|of|the|hest|known|citizen|of|salem|counti|new|jersey|he|was|born
near|woodstown|this|counti|march|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and|grew|to|man|s|estat|in
this|vicin|samuel|s|miller|was|a|nativ|of|swedesboro|gloucest
counti|this|state|and|devot|his|life|to|the|pursuit|of|agricultur|until|he
retir|from|particip|in|the|activ|duti|of|life|and|move|to|this|citi
sever|year|prior|to|his|death|he|was|a|republican|in|polit|and|a
friend|in|his|religi|convict|his|marriag|to|mari|e|madara|was
fruit|of|six|son|and|one|daughter|charl|was|born|august|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four
and|die|april|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|was|a|merchant|and|marri|elizabeth|vincent|sam
uel|c|marri|a|miss|morton|and|after|secur|a|legal|separ|from|his
first|wife|wed|miss|morrison|salli|a|is|the|wife|of|charl|n|snitcher
piley|born|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|die|decemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|jame|m|wed|a
miss|cooper|allen|w|is|the|subject|of|this|review|and|theodor|r|marri
a|miss|ale|this|worthi|coupl|were|permit|to|rear|their|children|to
adult|year|and|see|them|establish|in|home|of|their|own|befor|they|were
call|to|the|better|world|the|mother|enter|the|celesti|citi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
and|was|follow|by|the|devot|husband|and|father|seven|year|later|after|a
long|and|use|life|of|seventyseven|year
allen|w|miller|was|educ|in|the|pul|lic|school|of|salem|and|then
went|to|philadelphia|where|he|thought|to|better|his|chanc|of|work|in|a
larg|citi|he|was|with|j|o|davi|for|a|time|and|then|with|robert|fogg
later|enter|the|employ|of|the|west|jersey|railway|compani|for|a|period
of|nine|year|he|was|afterward|connect|with|the|baltimor|ohio|rail
road|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|when|he|accept|the|agenc|of|the|standard|oil|compan
fnr|this|countv|and|has|sinc|been|locat|in|salem|he|run|a|tank|wagon
and|suppli|oil|to|the|inhaliit|of|the|entir|counti
4i8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
he|was|marri|march|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|to|miss|anna|m|rickard|by|whom|he
had|ten|children|sahi|a|lonisa|t|anna|franc|dora|s|a|edward|s
who|was|born|may|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|die|novemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|abbi|r|who
was|bom|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|die|august|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|walter|d|preston|s
who|was|l|orn|januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|die|octob|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|helen|m|and
allen|w|jr|his|sympathi|are|given|to|republican|and|he|is|a|mem
ber|of|sever|fratern|order|name|shield|of|honor|no|three|of|phila
delphia|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|of|salem|no|five|senior|order|of
unit|american|mechan|no|twenty-one|and|the|knight|of|pythia|no|seven
he|is|popular|to|a|high|degre|and|has|host|of|friend|throughout|the|sur
round|countri
j|hampton|fithian
the|histori|of|few|famili|can|be|trace|back|in|a|more|direct|line|or|in
a|more|correct|manner|than|that|of|the|fithian|famili|of|which|our|subject
is|a|repres|prior|to|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and forty|william|fithian|a|nativ|of
england|came|to|america|cross|the|atlant|with|the|coloni|that|settl
in|lynn|massachusett|the|name|was|sometim|spell|pythian|but|the
present|orthographi|has|alway|been|follow|by|the|branch|of|the|famili|to
which|j|hampton|fithian|belong|the|origin|american|ancestor|wil
liam|fithian|remov|from|massachusett|to|east|hampton|on|long|island
where|he|die|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and eighty|his|last|will|and|testament|was|date|de
cember|ii|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-eight|his|children|were|enoch|samuel|sarah|hannah|and
martha|the|cumberland|counti|branch|of|the|famili|is|descend|from
samuel|fithian|but|mani|of|the|name|are|still|found|at|east|hampton
samuel|fithian|was|marri|march|six|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-nine|to|priscilla|daughter|of
thoma|and|alari|burnet|of|south|hampton|long|island|their|children
were|john|who|was|bom|septemb|i|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|josiah|born|may|six|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five
samuel|born|april|seventeen|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight|esther|born|march|six|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one|mathia|born
februari|three|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|and|william|born|march|twenty-five|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|samuel|fithian|with
his|wife|and|children|remov|from|east|hampton|long|island|to|fairfield
cumberland|counti|new|jersey|between|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-eight|and|one thousand, seven hundred and two|locat
at|what|is|now|call|new|england|road
the|eldest|son|john|fithian|there|marri|and|had|a|daughter|priscilla
who|was|born|may|i|one thousand, seven hundred and two|he|die|prior|to|her|birth|and|in|one thousand, seven hundred and four|his|widow
marri|john|ogden
josiah|fithian|the|second|son|of|samuel|and|priscilla|fithian|locat|at
greenwich|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|upon|a|farm|about|one thousand, seven hundred and six|he
own|extens|tract|of|land|and|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|on|a|larg
coxgressiox|district|of|nejf|jersey|four hundred and nineteen
scale|he|also|was|call|upon|to|settl|up|mani|estat|and|frequent|act
as|attorney|in|secur|adjust|of|troubl|between|jaeopl|of|the|com
muniti|he|marri|sarah|denni|and|their|children|were|john|who
was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and nine|jeremiah|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirteen|samuel|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifteen|hannah
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighteen|esther|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-one|joseph|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four|sarah|bom|in
one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-six|and|josiah|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-eight|after|the|death|of|the|mother|the|father
marri|again|but|had|no|children|by|the|second|union|he|was|a|promi
nent|member|and|an|elder|in|the|presbyterian|church|and|laid|the|corner
stone|in|it|hous|of|worship|in|greenwich|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-five|he|was|recogn|as|a
leader|in|public|afifair|in|mani|way|and|exert|a|wide|influenc|in|matter
pertain|to|the|general|progress|he|serv|as|one|of|the|judg|of|the
counti|of|salem|in|seventeen thousand, three hundred and twenty-three|and|from|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-eight|to|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|inclus|his|death|oc
cur|april|three|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|and|his|first|wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two
samuel|fithian|the|greatgreatgreatgrandfath|of|our|subject|was
born|octob|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and fifteen|and|die|novemb|two|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven|he|was|marri|sep
tember|three|one|seven hundred and forty-one|to|phebe|seeley|who|die|march|three|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four|the|same|year|he
wed|miss|mari|clark|the|children|of|the|first|union|were|hannah
who|becam|the|wife|of|nathan|leak|rachel|wife|of|daniel|clark|ami
wife|of|joseph|moor|joel|elizabeth|wife|of|ephraim|seeley|mari|wife|of
joshua|brick|sarah|wife|of|thoma|brown|ruth|wife|of|david|bowen
seeley|who|marri|ruth|bnrgin|and|esther|hunt
joel|fithian|the|greatgreatgrandfath|was|born|septemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight
and|die|novemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|he|was|marri|to|rachel|holm|whose
birth|occur|januari|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-one|and|who|die|on|the|12th|of|februari
one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|they|had|one|son|josiah|who|was|born|septemb|three|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|was|mar
rie|march|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|to|ahc|scudder|and|die|juli|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|the|second
wife|of|joel|fithian|was|elizabeth|beatti|whom|he|marri|novemb|four
one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|and|who|die|august|six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|their|children|were|charl|b|who
wed|alarv|ewe|samuel|who|marri|sarah|hollinshead|and|after|her
death|wed|sarah|reev|philip|who|marri|reljecca|bacon|and|later
wed|sarah|reev|erkurri|who|marri|maria|stratton|and|enoch
charl|beatti|fithian|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|was|born
decemb|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-two|and|die|novemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|on|the|i6th|of|januar
one thousand, eight hundred and five|he|wed|mari|ewe|who|die|april|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|their|children|were
ann|elizabeth|who|was|born|octob|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and five|was|marri|februari|nineteen
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|to|richard|fithian|and|die|januari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|eno|ewe|who|was
born|februari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|and|die|septemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|sarah|ewe|bom
januarv|two|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|was|marri|novemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|to|william|k|sheppard
erkuri|born|decemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|was|marri|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|to|han
nah|hard|and|die|pril|twelve|i8g6|rachel|ewe|born|august|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen
four hundred and twenty|biograph|hlsrori|of|the|first
was|marri|octol|er|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|to|roljert|g|garrison|and|die|jvdi|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two
samnel|r|ijorn|august|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|marri|amelia|bacon|christina|born
april|twenty-three|one|eighty-one|seven|was|marri|march|six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|to|thoma|glaspel|and|die|juli
ten|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|mari|clark|was|born|septemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|and|emili|seeley|born
septemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|becam|the|wife|of|samuel|f|lawrenc
erkuri|fithian|the|grandfath|was|born|at|greenwich|new|jersey
decemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|and|acquir|his|educ|in|the|public|school|in
earli|life|he|engag|in|farm|but|afterward|carri|on|merchandis|in
philadelphia|and|greenwich|make|his|home|in|the|latter|place|he|was
also|the|owner|of|a|number|of|essel|and|was|presid|of|the|board|of|direc
tor|of|a|steamboat|compani|his|vari|busi|interest|brought|to|him
a|handsom|compet|that|enabl|him|to|spend|the|last|thirti|year|of|his
life|in|retir|from|labor|his|incom|from|his|invest|be|sufcient
to|suppli|him|with|all|the|necessari|and|mani|of|the|comfort|of|life|he
held|a|number|of|local|offic|and|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|republican
parti|he|was|also|a|member|of|brearley|lodg|f|a|m|and|three|of
his|son|were|connect|with|the|mason|fratern|the|famili|zealous|ad
vocat|that|organ|his|death|occur|april|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|the
communiti|therebi|lost|one|of|it|most|valu|repres|he|was
marri|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|to|hannah|hard|who|was|born|octob|twenty-one
one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|die|april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|they|had|five|children|georg|b|who|was
born|februari|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|marri|harriet|mason|martha|ewe|who|was
born|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|becam|the|wife|of|joseph|blain|and|after|his|death
marri|john|f|wheaton|john|nelson|who|was|born|decemb|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two
marri|abigail|moor|jame|hampton|who|was|born|januari|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five
die|may|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|leav|a|widow|whose|maiden|name|was|sarah|jane
waller|and|samuel|patterson
the|last|name|was|the|father|of|our|subject|he|was|born|march|twenty-seven
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|in|greenwich|cumberland|counti|and|obtain|his|educ|in|the
public|school|of|his|nativ|town|and|in|shiloh|academi|he|learn|the
blacksmith|s|trade|under|the|direct|of|his|brother|georg|and|follow
that|pursuit|for|twenti|year|or|until|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|when|he|becam|a
candid|for|counti|clerk|he|was|defeat|for|that|offic|but|the|follow
year|was|elect|surrog|by|a|major|of|eight|hundr|his|term|continu
ing|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|then|reelect|by|a|major|of|two|thousand|and
held|the|offic|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|discharg|his|duti|in|a|most|credit|manner
which|fact|was|indic|by|the|increas|vote|given|him|at|his|second|elec
tion|sinc|his|retir|he|has|been|engag|in|the|realest|busi
and|is|also|connect|with|other|busi|enterpris|for|he|is|a|man|of|re
sourc|abil|and|his|effort|have|contribut|to|the|prosper|of|sever
congressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|four hundred and twenty-one
commerci|concern|he|is|now|presid|of|the|crystal|ice|cold|storag
compani|and|a|director|in|the|bridgeton|gas|compani|in|polit|he|is|a
stalwart|republican|and|is|now|chairman|of|the|execut|committe|of|his
parti|while|in|former|year|he|long|serv|as|chairman|of|the|counti|board
of|assessor|he|is|past|master|of|brearley|lodg|f|a|m|and|a|member
of|the|junior|order|of|unit|american|mechan|in|all|life|s|relat|he
has|command|the|respect|and|esteem|of|his|fellow|men|and|is|one|of|the
promin|and|influenti|resid|of|bridgeton|he|was|marri|septem
ber|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|to|margaret|k|stetser|who|was|l|orn|june|two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and|die
octob|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|they|had|three|children|erkuri|born|februari|four
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|is|assist|superisor|of|the|camden|amboy|divis|of|the|penn
sylvania|railroad|jame|hampton|is|the|next|younger|georg|wash
ton|born|juli|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|was|graduat|in|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|and|is|now|a|resid|physician|in|the|cooper|hospit|of|camden|xew
jersey|martha|w|born|juli|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|die|on|the|23d|of|august|that|year
and|maggi|l|born|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|die|on|the|3d|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one
jame|hampton|fithian|whose|name|head|this|record|was|born|in
greenwich|cumberland|counti|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|in|the|public|school
of|his|nativ|town|acquir|his|preliminari|educ|which|was|suppl
ment|by|a|cours|in|the|west|jersey|academi|in|which|he|was|graduat
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|in|june|of|the|follow|year|he|enter|the|ofific|of|the|hon
thoma|w|trenchard|the|present|law|judg|of|cumberland|counti|and
was|admit|as|an|attorney|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|and|as|a|counselor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight
in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|he|enter|into|partnership|with|georg|hampton
under|the|firm|name|of|hampton|fithian|and|this|firm|is|now|one|of|the
strongest|in|the|counti|their|clientag|is|veri|extens|and|the|litig
with|which|they|are|connect|is|of|an|import|charact|peopl|do|not
trust|their|legal|busi|to|unskil|hand|and|the|larg|practic
which|the|firm|enjoy|is|therefor|an|indic|of|their|abil|mr|fithian
is|yet|a|young|man|but|has|attain|prestig|at|the|bar|which|might|well|be
envi|by|mani|an|older|practition|he|is|a|close|student|prepar|his
case|with|great|thorough|and|is|logic|and|forc|in|present|his
case|befor|court|and|juri|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was|elect|counti|counsel|to
the|board|of|free|holder|and|was|reelect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|again|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|in
the|spring|of|the|last|name|year|he|was|appoint|prosecutor|of|the|plea
of|cumberland|counti|and|is|a|member|of|the|cumberland|counti|bar|as
sociat|and|the|state|prosecutor|associ|his|advanc|in|the
profess|has|been|mark|he|is|an|indefatig|and|earnest|worker
profici|in|everi|depart|of|the|law|and|again|and|again|has|won|the
victori|laurel|of|competitor|of|mark|abilitv|he|is|quick|to|note|his
4jj|blogiiapulc|histori|of|thii|first
upportun|and|is|most|liapp|in|his|choic|of|languag|so|tliat|lii|argu
ment|is|heighten|b|the|grace|of|rhetor
mr|fithian|was|marri|on|the|26th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|to|miss|alari|e
robbin|a|daughter|of|w|w|roblin|a|promin|citizen|and|extens
dri|good|merchant|of|bridgeton|they|have|one|child|j|hampton|who
was|born|may|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|air|fithian|hold|membership|in|the|junior|order
of|unit|american|alechan|in|the|bridgeton|camera|societi|and|in|the
presbyterian|church|his|is|a|well|round|develop|in|which|due|atten
tion|has|been|given|to|busi|social|polit|and|moral|interest|cordial
in|disposit|courteous|in|deport|and|of|frank|and|genial|manner|he
has|won|man_|friend|and|is|veri|popular
saiith|thoaipson
among|those|who|tlevot|their|energi|to|agricultur|pursuit|in|east
greenwich|township|gloucest|counti|is|smith|thompson|who|was|born
near|paulsboro|new|jersey|februari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|and|is|a|son|of|isaac|l|and
elizabeth|clark|thompson|the|father|a|farmer|by|occup|remov
with|his|famili|to|alaryland|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|die|soon|after|at|the|age|of|forti
six|year|the|mother|still|surviv|her|husband|and|is|now|live|in|paul
boro|with|her|son|garrett|thompson|in|the|famili|were|nine|children
isaac|a|farmer|resid|near|paulsboro|anni|the|widow|of|samuel|shoe
maker|of|camden|garrett|ho|follow|carpent|in|paulsboro|alar
garet|who|wed|william|johnson|and|after|his|death|becarft|the|wife|of
william|roecap|of|mullica|hill|new|jersey|beulah|the|widow|of|georg
powel|of|philadelphia|alari|the|wife|of|emanuel|barto|of|alarcus|hook
pennsylvania|smith|of|this|review|ida|the|wife|of|samuel|heritag|of
thorofar|and|clayton|a|farmer|of|east|greenwich|township|gloucest
counti
in|the|public|school|of|thorofar|and|paulsboro|air|thompson|acquir
his|educ|and|throughout|his|life|has|follow|farm|as|a|mean|of|live
lihood|he|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|in|deptford|township|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three
when|he|remov|to|east|greenwich|township|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|purchas|his
present|farm|of|fortyf|acr|locat|thereon|the|follow|year|he
manag|his|busi|affair|with|capabl|and|his|energi|and|practic
method|are|bring|to|him|a|fair|incom
on|the|i2th|of|alarch|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|air|thomji
son|and|aliss|alic|d|parker|a|daughter|of|restor|l|parker|of|east
greenwich|township|gloucest|counti|they|now|have|two|children|c
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and twenty-three
edgar|and|caddi|r|mr|thompson|is|a|member|of|the|paulsboro|meth
odist|episcop|church|and|he|also|belong|to|the|independ|order|of
odd|fellow|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|and|the|patron
of|husbandri|of|swedesboro|in|polit|he|is|a|republican|he|and|his
wife|have|a|wide|acquaint|in|this|communiti|and|enjoy|the|high|regard
of|a|larg|circl|of|friend
albert|heritag
mani|line|of|activ|afford|opportun|to|but|a|limit|number|the
chanc|for|advanc|in|militari|and|polit|life|are|but|compar
few|but|in|the|realm|of|commerc|and|agricultur|it|is|possibl|for|all|to
attain|success|if|they|but|follow|honor|le|busi|method|and|are|ener
getic|determin|and|industri|albert|heritag|is|one|who|is|close
connect|with|the|farm|interest|of|gloucest|counti|be|the|owner
of|a|valuabl|and|high|cultiv|tract|of|land|in|woolwich|township|he
was|born|in|east|greenwich|township|in|the|same|counti|juli|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six
and|is|a|son|of|charl|and|martha|r|borton|heritag|who|now|resid
near|wolferth|station|new|jersey|he|was|educ|in|the|friend|school
of|mickleton|and|remain|with|his|father|upon|the|farm|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when
he|began|farm|on|his|own|account|at|the|place|which|is|now|his|home
he|purchas|the|properti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|is|today|the|owner|of|one|hundr
acr|of|valuabl|land|on|which|he|is|success|carri|on|the|busi
of|garden|and|the|rais|of|poultri|for|the|product|of|the|place|he
find|a|readi|market|in|the|surround|town|and|is|carri|on|busi
systemat|prosecut|his|labor|with|energi|and|is|meet|with|a
well|merit|prosper|his|labor|are|conduct|on|a|scientif|basi|he
has|made|a|care|studi|of|the|habit|and|need|of|the|various|veget
wdiich|he|cultiv|and|of|the|poultri|which|he|rais|and|his|thorough|un
derstand|of|the|busi|enabl|him|to|so|conduct|it|as|to|secur|there
from|excel|financi|result
on|the|29th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|mr|heritag|was|unit|in|marriag
to|miss|rebecca|g|batten|a|daughter|of|john|b|batten|then|a|resid
of|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|but|now|live|in|philadelphia
seven|children|have|been|born|of|their|union|name|clififord|b|ray
mond|e|who|die|at|the|age|of|six|month|clara|b|emma|a|who|die
in|infanc|alic|r|warren|who|die|at|the|age|of|six|month|and|edith
may|mr|heritag|and|his|famili|are|memler|of|the|societi|of|friend
and|sociallv|he|is|connect|with|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen
four hundred and twenty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|with|swedesboro|grang|of|which|he|is|a|veri|activ|member|he
former|serv|as|it|master|and|frequent|address|the|grang|on|matter
of|moment|to|the|organ|he|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|sup
port|of|men|and|measur|of|the|republican|parti|and|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|has|been
a|member|of|the|school|board|serv|for|three|year|as|it|presid|the
becaus|of|educ|find|in|him|a|warm|friend|and|in|his|ofifici|capac|he
has|done|much|to|advanc|it|interest|and|to|rais|the|standard|of|the|school
in|his|communiti|he|belong|to|that|class|of|publicspirit|progress
men|who|withhold|their|support|from|no|measur|calcul|to|promot|the
general|welfar|his|life|histori|should|serv|to|prove|as|a|sourc|of|encour
agement|and|inspir|to|other|for|depend|entir|upon|his|own
etyort|he|has|steadili|work|his|way|upward|until|he|is|today|account
one|of|the|most|substanti|and|reliabl|citizen|of|his|nativ|countv
williaai|j|moor
promin|connect|with|the|busi|interest|of|bridgeton|william
joel|moor|has|for|some|year|figur|conspicu|in|connect|with|it
materi|interest|and|so|honor|has|been|his|deal|that|in|all|life|s|re
lation|he|command|the|respect|and|esteem|of|his|fellow|men|he|was|born
in|franklinvill|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|and|is|a
son|of|jacob|m|and|abigail|reev|moor|his|patern|grandfath
joel|moor|was|bom|in|deerfield|township|cumberland|counti|and
throughout|his|busi|career|conduct|a|general|merchandis|establish
ment|in|that|place|but|sever|year|prior|to|his|death|he|retir|to|privat
life|his|polit|support|was|given|to|the|republican|parti|and|he|was|a
recogn|leader|in|it|rank|do|all|in|his|power|to|secur|it|success|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|he|was|elect|to|the|state|legislatur|and|discharg|his|duti|so|ac
ceptabl|that|he|was|reelect|for|the|succeed|term|he|held|member
ship|in|the|presbyterian|church|and|die|at|the|age|of|seventyf|year
while|his|wife|mrs|cora|moor|pass|away|at|the|age|of|seventysix
year
their|onli|child|jacob|m|moor|was|born|in|deerfield|cumberland
counti|about|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|spent|his|youth|there|and|for|some|time|had|charg|of
his|father|s|general|store|subsequ|he|went|to|philadelphia|where|he
engag|in|the|wholesal|drygood|busi|and|about|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|he|was
marri|and|locat|in|bridgeton|where|he|establish|a|groceri|store
which|he|conduct|for|a|number|of|year|about|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|enter|into
partnership|with|his|son|william|j|moor|in|the|hat|and|shoe|busi|and
d|i|2t
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and twenty-five
their|constant|increas|patronag|forc|them|to|seek|more|commodi
quarter|accord|they|erect|a|larg|threestori|brick|block|on|south
laurel|street|the|first|floor|be|devot|to|four|larg|storeroom|while
the|upper|floor|were|util|as|an|opera|hous|as|their|financi|resourc
increas|mr|moor|made|judici|invest|in|real|estat|and|is|today
the|owner|of|much|valuabl|properti|he|is|now|live|retir|in|bridgeton
lii|well|direct|and|conserv|effort|in|former|year|have|brought|to
him|a|handsom|compet|that|now|surround|him|with|all|the|comfort|of
life|sinc|he|attain|his|major|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|independ
order|of|odd|fellow|and|sinc|the|organ|of|the|republican|parti
he|has|been|one|of|it|stalwart|support|his|membership|in|the|meth
odist|episcop|church|at|bridgeton|cover|a|long|period|and|for|mani|year
he|has|serv|as|one|of|the|truste|his|life|has|been|an|honor|and|up
right|one|commend|him|to|the|confid|and|good|will|of|all|and|he|is
regard|as|one|of|the|most|promin|influenti|and|high|respect|resi
dent|of|bridgeton|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|call|upon|to|mourn|the|loss|of|his
wife|who|die|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|year
william|j|moor|their|onli|son|acquir|his|elementari|educ|in
the|public|school|and|later|attend|the|west|jersey|academi|after|put
ting|asid|his|textbook|and|receiv|some|preliminari|busi|train
he|becam|associ|with|his|father|in|the|hat|and|shoe|busi|and|after
the|erect|of|the|new|busi|block|he|was|the|manag|of|the|o|5era
hous|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|he|has|given|his|entir|attent|to|that|work|in|addit
to|care|for|his|realest|interest|which|includ|the|ownership|of|a
number|of|resid|and|sever|farm|from|his|properti|he|deriv|a|good
incom|which|is|larg|supplement|by|his|return|from|the|opera|hous
and|bridgeton|is|fortun|in|have|such|a|man|as|mr|moor|in|charg
of|it|lead|place|of|amus|all|well|balanc|peopl|recogn|the
import|of|entertain|in|life|for|the|person|whose|attent|is|given
to|busi|alon|becom|onesid|in|his|develop|and|his|faculti
along|other|line|are|blunt|great|care|howev|should|be|taken|in|choo
ing|the|form|of|amus|and|in|this|regard|mr|moor|s|effort|have
been|of|peculiar|benefit|to|bridgeton|he|is|veri|care|to|maintain|a|high
standard|in|connect|with|the|amus|which|he|place|upon|the|stage
and|manv|of|the|best|actor|lectur|and|musician|of|the|countri|have
been|heard|in|bridgeton|the|opera|hous|is|attract|in|appear|well
light|tast|decor|heat|by|steam|and|supph|with|electr
and|gas|here|are|held|all|the|entertain|given|by|the|young|men|s
christian|associ|the|music|union|and|the|school|and|the|moor
four hundred and twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
opera|hous|fill|a|posit|of|use|in|the|communiti|as|a|place|of|pub
lic|assembl|that|is|worthi|of|note
mr|moor|has|also|been|an|import|factor|in|connect|with|munic
ipal|affair|and|he|withhold|his|support|from|no|measur|which|he|believ
a|public|good|he|has|frequent|been|call|upon|to|aid|in|conduct|the
busi|affair|of|the|citi|have|been|a|member|of|the|board|of|freehold
for|two|term|and|a|member|of|the|citi|council|for|three|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he
was|elect|to|the|lower|hous|of|the|state|legislatur|and|is|now|fill|the
posit|of|repres|in|a|most|credit|way|discharg|his|duti|in
a|manner|most|satisfacton|to|his|constitu|he|is|a|stanch|republican
in|his|polit|view|and|has|frequent|serv|as|a|deleg|to|the|local
congression|and|state|convent|where|his|opinion|are|receiv|with
consider|his|counsel|carri|weight|among|the|repres|of|his
parti|he|was|also|commission|of|appeal|for|a|number|of|term
on|the|1st|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|mr|moor|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
emma|h|boss|a|daughter|of|joseph|boss|a|shoemerch|of|bridgeton
they|have|two|children|edward|v|who|is|a|bookkeep|in|new|york
citi|and|mari|w|the|wife|of|edward|h|grave|the|genial|host|of|the
cumberland|hotel|at|bridgeton|mr|moor|and|his|wife|are|member|of
the|second|presbyterian|church|and|in|social|circl|they|occup|an|enviabl
posit|he|is|a|man|of|fine|person|appear|social|and|cordial|in|man
ner|and|popular|with|all|class
christian|a|maddex
christian|a|madden|the|superintend|of|the|woodburi|glass|work
was|born|in|franklin|township|gloucest|counti|octob|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|his
ancestor|were|number|among|the|earli|settler|of|this|state|and|for|sev
eral|generat|they|have|been|promin|worker|in|the|glassmanufactur
ing|industri
hoosier|madden|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|came|to|america
prior|to|the|war|of|the|revolut|from|scotland|his|nativ|countri|he
was|accompani|by|his|famili|and|made|a|settlement|near|port|elizabeth
new|jersey|he|then|engag|in|farm|and|from|time|to|time|made|pur
chase|of|land|along|the|marsh|river|at|last|he|was|call|to|the|better
land|and|his|remain|were|place|to|rest|in|the|old|cemeteri|at|port|eliza
beth|his|son|martin|who|was|our|subject|s|grandfath|was|born|in|scot
land|and|was|a|young|man|at|the|time|that|the|famili|cross|the|atlant
ocean|he|had|learn|the|trade|of|slassblow|and|work|at|that|callin
coxgressioxil|district|of|xeiv|jersey|four hundred and twenty-seven
dure|the|greater|part|of|his|hfe|for|a|wife|he|chose|a|miss|stanger
whose|famili|had|locat|in|new|jersey|at|an|earli|day|seven|brother|of
the|name|have|settl|on|alloway|creek|dure|the|coloni|period|they
too|were|glassblow|by|trade|and|were|the|first|to|introduc|the|industri
and|build|the|first|glasswork|in|the|unit|state|their|origin|factori
was|destroy|by|the|british|troop|dure|the|revolut|and|after|peac
had|settl|upon|this|nation|again|the|brother|separ|some|found
home|in|glassboro|and|brooklyn|while|the|other|remain|at|port|eliza
beth|though|all|continu|to|work|at|their|old|trade|to|the|union|of
martin|and|sarah|madden|three|son|were|born|martin|hoosier|and
john|hoosier|the|second|son|was|born|at|port|ehzabeth|and|in|his
young|manhood|follow|the|busi|of|glassblow|subsequ|he
remov|to|cape|iay|countv|where|for|sever|year|he|engag|in|mer
cantil|pursuit|and|later|he|gave|his|attent|to|agricultur|for|one|term
he|was|the|sheriff|of|cape|may|counti|and|at|the|time|of|his|death|he|was
serv|his|third|year|as|senat|from|his|district|to|himself|and|wife
catherin|five|children|were|born|name|dr|edward|thoma|who
has|occupi|a|posit|in|the|state|penitentiari|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|braddock|who|is
engag|in|the|iron|and|tin|busi|in|chicago|hope|resid|upon|the
old|homestead|and|oti|deceas|and|former|the|postmast|of|tuckaho
new|jersey|john|iadden|the|youngest|son|of|martin|and|sarah|iniadden
also|a|nativ|of|port|elizabeth|learn|the|glasscutt|trade|at|millvill
new|jersev|and|later|was|the|superintend|of|the|wood|window|glass
ork|there|for|fifteen|year|he|was|honor|by|be|elect|to|repr
sent|his|district|in|the|state|legislatur|offici|as|a|member|of|the|citi
council|and|occupi|numer|other|local|posit|of|trust|he|marri
mari|wilson|and|their|children|were|wilson|wallac|and|iniari|the|latter
becom|the|wife|of|alfr|goodwin|of|millvill
martin|madden|the|eldest|son|of|martin|and|sarah|madden|and|the
father|of|our|subject|was|ijorn|at|port|elizalaeth|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|like|his|broth
er|becam|interest|in|the|manufactur|of|glass|when|he|was|young
and|pursu|this|call|throughout|life|he|was|unit|in|marriag|with
rebecca|powel|the|daughter|of|isaac|powel|a|prosper|and|lead|citi
zen|of|millvill|new|jersey|where|he|was|engag|in|contract|and|ijuild
ing|the|powel|famili|origin|from|haddonfield|new|jersey|were
member|of|the|societi|of|friend|to|the|union|of|martin|and|rebecca
madden|ten|children|were|born|name|as|follow|mari|deceas|for
mer|the|wife|of|charl|parker|cooper|deceas|martin|who|marri
elizabeth|clark|and|resid|in|bridgeton|this|state|christian|a|hoosier
who|wed|ella|dawson|and|resid|at|atlanta|georgia|henr|who|die
four hundred and twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|at|the|age|of|fiftyfour|year|and|whose|wife|former|martha|rich
mond|also|has|pass|away|rachel|the|wife|of|william|backus|of|philadel
phia|rebecca|deceas|the|wife|of|nathan|gregori|of|camden|new|jer
sey|horac|a|citizen|of|columbus|ohio|and|emma|the|wife|of|ralph
kinch|of|newbold|new|jersey|the|father|of|these|children|was|sum
mone|to|the|silent|land|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five
christian|a|madden|as|previous|state|is|a|nativ|of|this|counti|and
in|his|boyhood|gain|a|liber|educ|in|the|public|school|when|less
than|fifteen|year|of|age|he|began|serv|an|apprenticeship|to|the|glass
blower|trade|in|the|work|of|thoma|stanger|at|brooklyn|new|jersey
he|becam|veri|profici|at|his|trade|and|for|near|a|quarter|of|a|centuri
from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|was|employ|bv|one|firm|moor|brother|of
clayton|new|jersey|leav|them|onli|when|his|present|respons|posi
tion|was|proffer|him
the|woodburi|glass|work|were|organ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|iji|thirtyon|glass
blower|as|a|cooper|stock|compani|g|g|green|be|elect|presi
dent|israel|voorhe|secretari|and|treasur|and|c|a|madden|superin
tendent|sinc|the|ilant|was|establish|it|has|been|great|enlarg|and
improv|and|now|four|furnac|and|four|continu|tank|with|a|capac
of|from|one|hundr|to|one|hundr|and|seventyf|ton|are|in|constant
oper|employ|is|afford|to|about|two|hundr|hand|and
everyth|is|in|a|flourish|condit|thank|to|the|thorough|and|gen
eral|effici|of|the|offic|of|the|compani|at|present|they|are|g|g
green|presid|w|h|beckett|general|busi|manag|and|c|a|mad
den|superintend|of|the|glassblow|depart|the|compani|manu
factur|bottl|exclus|and|in|all|size|from|the|smallest|to|the|largest
use|in|the|trade|a|visit|to|the|work|well|repay|the|travel|who|can|not
fail|to|admir|the|excel|system|the|modern|applianc|use|and|the
beauti|of|the|manufactur|articl|the|public|has|had|more|than|ordinari
interest|in|the|success|of|this|enterpris|becaus|it|was|not|organ|by
and|for|the|benefit|of|a|few|wealthi|capitalist|but|on|the|contrari|was|or
ganiz|by|and|for|the|skill|workmen|who|have|brought|it|to|it|pay
and|flourish|state|to|mr|madden|whose|wise|supervis|has|not|re
lax|for|the|eighteen|year|he|has|been|connect|with|the|enterpris|much
prais|is|due|and|everi|man|who|is|interest|in|the|welfar|of|the|compani
has|been|a|stanch|friend|and|will|assist|to|him|in|his|arduous|labor
he|is|just|popular|with|the|offic|and|various|member|of|the|compani
and|it|would|be|difficult|inde|to|adequ|fill|his|place
on|the|20th|of|august|i860|mr|madden|marri|mar|f|morgan|a
daughter|of|peter|and|sarah|morgan|of|clavton|new|jersev|thev|lie
coxgressiox|district|of|xew|jersey|four hundred and twenty-nine
came|the|parent|of|six|children|three|son|and|three|daughter|name
georg|h|who|wed|maggi|pugh|anthoni|g|whose|wife|was|har
riet|lane|in|her|girlhood|harri|who|marri|louisa|ierchant|lari|e
ada|and|emma
the|becaus|of|educ|and|all|movement|calcul|to|l|enefit|the|com
muniti|have|receiv|the|warm|endors|of|mr|madden|he|has|serv
as|the|presid|of|the|school|lioard|in|woodburi|and|has|been|the|commit
teeman|of|the|township|social|he|is|a|member|of|forest|grove|lodg
no|ninety-one|f|a|m|and|is|one|of|it|past|master|and|in|lona|lodg|no|thirty-eight
l|o|o|f|he|is|the|past|nobl|grand|in|polit|matter|he|is|an|uncom
promis|democrat|religi|he|is|a|presbyterian|and|held|the|offic
of|truste|in|the|clayton|presbyterian|church|for|some|year|befor|come
to|woodburi
b|frank|rulon
benjamin|f|rulon|resid|at|the|ancestr|home|of|the|famili|the|farm
have|come|into|possess|of|his|grandfath|mose|rulon|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seven
sinc|that|time|the|famili|name|has|been|connect|with|it|ownership|the
grandfath|marri|susan|hartley|and|among|their|children|was|mark|t
rulon|the|father|of|our|subject|who|resid|on|the|old|homestead|until
his|death|which|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|when|he|had|attain|the|advanc|age
of|eightytwo|year|his|wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of|elizabeth|william
and|her|death|occur|in|one hundred and eighty-eight|one|when|she|was|sixtysix|year|of|age|in|their
famili|were|nine|children|theodosia|b|who|die|at|the|age|of|fifti|year
benjamin|franklin|of|this|review|joseph|who|resid|in|swedesboro
fanni|the|wife|of|d|winfield|sithen|of|mullica|hill|new|jersey|mari
the|wife|of|j|wesley|shoemak|deceas|of|wilmington|delawar
rachel|the|deceas|wife|of|john|conley|a|schoolteach|of|berkley|new
jersey|georg|who|die|at|the|age|of|two|year|georg|the|second|of
the|name|who|die|at|the|age|of|ten|year|and|lizzi|who|pass|away|at
the|age|of|eight|year
mr|rulon|whose|name|introduc|this|review|was|born|on|the|17th|of
septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|on|the|old|famili|homestead|which|is|still|the|place|of|his
resid|his|preliminari|educ|acquir|in|the|public|school|of|his
nativ|town|was|supplement|by|studi|in|the|swedesboro|academi|he
earli|becam|familiar|with|the|labor|of|the|field|and|assist|his|father|until
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|when|he|one|iegan|busi|on|his|own|account|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|assum
the|manag|of|the|home|farm|and|he|purchas|the|properti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
he|has|given|consider|attent|to|the|stud_|of|the|scientif|principl
four hundred and thirty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
which|underh|the|cultiv|of|cereal|and|his|knowledg|of|agricnltin
is|comprehens|and|accur|in|his|everyday|duti|he|is|practic|and
systemat|and|the|appear|of|the|place|indic|a|spirit|of|neat
thrift|and|enterpris
on|the|13th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|ir|rulon|led|to|the|marriag|altar|miss
elmira|w|moor|a|daughter|of|ezekiel|c|moor|of|woolwich|township
gloucest|counti|their|onli|child|edward|now|cultiv|a|part|of|his
father|s|farm|he|marri|miss|evelin|h|a|daughter|of|william|a|shirler
of|swedesboro|and|they|have|two|children|henr|e|and|anna|m|mr
rulon|of|this|review|is|a|past|master|workman|of|the|ancient|order|of
unit|orkmen|and|is|an|activ|member|of|the|swedesboro|grang|his
polit|support|is|given|the|republican|parti|and|his|religi|faith|is|in
harmoni|with|the|doctrin|of|the|societi|of|friend|with|which|organiza
tion|he|and|his|famili|are|identifi
the|fact|that|mani|wdio|have|known|him|from|boyhood|have|for|him
the|highest|respect|is|an|indic|that|his|life|has|been|well|spent|his
busi|interest|occupi|the|greater|part|of|his|time|and|attent|but|he
is|alway|true|to|his|duti|of|citizenship|and|is|earnest|and|zealous|in|his
support|of|all|measur|calcul|to|advanc|the|general|welfar
robert|e|hand
high|on|the|roll|of|new|jersey|s|emin|citizen|appear|the|name|of
robert|edmond|hand|who|is|now|repres|his|district|in|the|state
senat|for|mani|year|he|has|figur|conspicu|in|connect|with
public|affair|and|his|record|is|alik|credit|to|himself|and|the|peopl
whom|he|repres|in|the|lawmak|bodi|of|the|commonwealth|it|is
a|well|attest|maxim|that|the|great|of|a|state|lie|not|in|it|machineri
of|govern|nor|even|in|it|institut|but|in|the|sterl|quahti|of
it|individu|citizen|in|their|capac|for|high|and|unselfish|effort|and|their
devot|to|the|public|good|to|this|class|belong|mr|hand|the|goal
toward|which|he|has|hasten|ilur|his|mani|year|of|toil|and|endeavor|is
that|which|is|attain|onli|by|such|men|as|have|by|patriot|and|wise|coun
sel|given|the|world|an|impetus|toward|the|good|such|have|gain|the|right
and|titl|to|have|their|name|endur|inscrib|on|the|bright|page|of
histori
robert|e|hand|was|born|where|he|now|resid|in|lower|township
cape|iay|counti|june|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|his|parent|be|parson|and|may|l
parson|hand|his|patern|grandfath|w|as|one|of|the|first|tea|merchant
ipf|one|x
coxgressiox|district|of|neij|jersey|four hundred and thirty-one
and|a|veri|promin|busi|man|of|philadelphia|he|resid|in|chester
counti|and|had|a|beauti|home|in|philadelphia|togeth|with|a|countri
seat|the|father|of|our|subject|was|l|orn|in|chester|counti|pennsylvania
in|one thousand, eight hundred and three|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|was|educ|in|the|common|school|and
remov|to|cape|may|counti|locat|at|emma|where|he|own|and|culti
vate|a|farm|of|two|hundr|acr|his|polit|support|was|given|the|re
publican|parti|he|held|membership|in|the|cold|spring|presbyterian|church
and|for|forti|year|was|a|regular|attend|on|it|servic|he|was|twice
marri|his|first|union|be|with|sarah|miller|by|whom|he|had|one|child
clara|louis|who|becam|the|wife|of|reuben|foster|who|follow|mer
chandis|in|baltimor|maryland|and|was|also|the|owner|of|a|line|of|steam
er|he|becam|veri|wealthi|acquir|his|capit|entir|through|his|own
effort|mr|and|mrs|foster|had|but|one|child|uriah|after|the|death|of
his|first|wife|parson|hand|marri|judith|cress|and|they|had|a|daughter
judith|wife|of|reuben|hoffman|of|cape|may|his|third|wife|was|mar
parson|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|two|children|robert|and|mari
elizabeth|the|daughter|be|the|wife|of|robert|hill|chief|build|in
spector|of|philadelphia|and|a|lead|and|influenti|citizen|they|have|one
child|edna|miriam|the|father|of|our|subject|die|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|at|the
age|of|seventythre|year|and|the|mother|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|at|the|age|of
fiftythre|year
sir|hand|whose|name|form|the|caption|of|this|articl|obtain|his|edu
cation|in|the|public|school|of|emma|where|he|pursu|his|studi|for|about
three|month|each|year|spend|the|remaind|of|the|year|upon|the|farm
his|time|be|devot|to|the|work|of|field|and|meadow|at|the|age|of
eighteen|he|left|school|but|remain|with|his|father|until|he|had|attain
his|major|when|he|went|to|sea|as|second|mate|for|five|year|his|exp
rienc|were|those|of|a|life|on|the|ocean|wave|and|then|he|resum|farm
ing|and|also|becam|connect|with|other|industri|he|doe|an|extens
busi|as|an|oyster|garden|and|also|get|out|timber|which|he|sell|under
contract|he|own|about|fifteen|hundr|acr|of|farm|and|wood|land
and|the|incom|deriv|from|the|field|and|woodland|have|made|him|one
of|the|wealthi|resid|of|the|communiti|he|also|doe|general|contract
work|and|is|financi|interest|in|the|summit|hotel|where|he|has|thirti
acr|of|bay|front|land|he|is|the|control|stockhold|in|the|star|of|the
cape|of|cape|may|citi|the|onli|straight|republican|paper|in|the|countv
and|in|the|manag|of|these|various|busi|enterpris|display|excel
lent|execut|abil|and|sound|judgment
mr|hand|is|a|stalwart|republican|in|his|polit|view|and|has|held|a
number|of|public|posit|of|honor|and|trust|for|fifteen|vear|he|has
wmin|youmt|trn
scigher|i|itfafw|tic|rjazi|nwft
i
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and thirty-three
sou|georg|had|charg|of|the|packet|sloop|marianna|on|the|same|rout
about|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|he|took|charg|and|was|in|command|of|the|steamer
essex|which|also|pli|between|salem|and|philadelphia|a|man|just|and
honor|in|his|deal|exemplari|and|upright|in|his|charact|he|die
septemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|at|the|age|of|fortyfour|year|respect|by|all|who|knew
him|his|wife|was|bom|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-two|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|to|them
were|bom|the|follow|children|georg|t|bom|decemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and five
lawtenc|h|who|was|bom|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|and|marri|sarah
blackwood|who|die|septemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|after|which|he|wed|mar
lindsay|his|death|occur|januark|i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|robert|m|who|was|bom
novemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|die|may|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|joseph|who|was|bom|march
twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|and|die|octob|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|john|who|was|bom|may|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|and
die|octob|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|thoma|h|who|was|bom|octob|four|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|and
die|octob|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|phoeb|a|who|was|bom|januari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|die
septemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|joseph|s|who|was|bom|novemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and
die|februan|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty
georg|t|boon|was|a|nativ|of|bridgeton|xew|jersev|and|his|earlv
edjtic|and|train|were|well|calcul|to|make|him|whaz|he|afterward
becam|one|of|the|most|reliabl|and|skill|men|who|follow|steanjboat
ing|he|work|with|his|father|and|becam|his|successor|in|busi|at|his
death|he|was|so|thorough|acquaint|with|evernh|pertain|to|river
life|that|his|opinion|were|consid|undisput|authoritv|or|all|que
tion|in|that|line|when|a|lad|he|came|to|salem|with|his|father|and|after|the
latter|s|death|in|connect|with|his|brother|lawrenc|hoover|and|robert
mcclure|continu|oper|the|steamer|on|abandon|the|essex|he
took|charg|of|the|steamer|flush|and|final|command|the|steamer
clifton|which|he|piirchas|of|commodor|vanderbilt|he|die|tune|two
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|after|a|ver|short|ill|and|the|flag|on|the|steamer|in|the|port|of
philadelphia|were|lisplay|at|half|mast|as|a|tribut|of|respect|in|his
polit|iew|s|he|was|a|whig|and|in|respect|to|religion|he|was|an|attend
at|the|servic|of|the|episcop|church|he|marri|miss|hannah|s|cooper
who|was|bom|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|and|is|now|li|a|remarkablv|w|ell|preserv|woman
for|one|of|her|year|she|have|anain|the|age|of|eightveight|vear|thev
had|foiu|children|but|the|first|two|son|both|of|whom|were|name|robert
die|in|infanc|the|next|son|was|robert|fulton|the|subject|of|this|review
georgiana|the|third|child|was|bom|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|is|the|wife|of|john|c
mulford|w|ho|was|a|druggist|at|salem|they|had|one|child|harrv|b
robert|f|boon|acquir|his|earli|educ|in|the|subscript|school
conduct|by|the|friend|and|later|attend|salem|academv|as|he|was
unabl|to|bear|the|confin|of|the|schoolroom|he|was|taken|from|school
four hundred and thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
state|joseph|s|and|william|gleeson|assist|their|father|upon|the|farm
until|his|death|when|they|inherit|the|estat|a|portion|of|the|origin
homestead|had|been|sold|but|they|have|repurchas|the|greater|part|of|it
and|ad|other|land|until|now|they|have|about|two|hundr|acr|under
fine|cultiv|with|good|build|and|which|constitut|one|of|the|best
properti|in|gloucest|counti|they|do|a|general|truckfarm|and|grain
grow|busi|under|the|firm|name|of|j|s|w|gleeson|and|have|been
veri|success|in|their|enterpris|they|are|lioth|member|of|the|patron|of
husbandri|and|like|their|father|are|firm|elieer|in|the|principl|of|the
republican|art|as|busi|men|they|stand|high|for|integr|and|fair
dealino
benjamin|hancock
arious|inde|are|the|interest|hich|have|occupi|the|attent|of
benjamin|hancock|and|his|effort|have|been|so|discern|direct|along
man|line|that|it|would|he|difiicult|to|determin|the|power|of|his|greatest
use|this|is|an|age|of|utihtarian|and|the|claim|has|been|made|that
the|extent|and|magnitud|of|commerci|afifair|are|crowd|out|all|oppor
tuniti|for|advanc|along|other|line|but|an|investig|of|the|condi
tion|of|our|countri|will|show|the|mark|progress|which|has|been|made|in
esthet|educ|and|moral|develop|and|the|polit|posit|of|the
nation|is|command|respect|and|attent|never|befor|accord|to|it
these|condit|are|not|due|to|the|favor|few|who|occupi|place|of|leader
ship|befor|the|world|but|result|from|the|aggreg|eftort|of|patriot|pub
licspirit|and|honor|men|throughout|the|nation
each|communiti|furnish|a|number|of|these|and|such|an|one|in|bridg
ton|is|benjamin|hancock|his|life|histori|began|april|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|his|birth|hav
ing|occur|in|canton|salem|counti|new|jersey|his|parent|were|daniel
p|and|jane|hancock|his|patern|grandfath|benjamin|hancock|resid
at|canton|spend|his|entir|life|there|while|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|he
carri|on|farm|and|follow|the|sea|becom|the|captain|of|a|vessel
he|gave|his|polit|support|first|to|the|whig|parti|and|afterward|to|the
republican|parti|daniel|p|hancock|was|born|on|a|farm|near|canton|in
august|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|receiv|a|limit|educ|and|in|earli|life|work|at|hard
labor|go|to|sea|he|ultim|becam|the|captain|of|a|vessel|and|like
his|father|devot|some|time|to|agricultur|pursuit|by|his|ballot|he|sup
port|the|men|and|measur|of|the|whig|parti|until|it|dissolut|when
he|join|the|rank|of|the|republican|parti|his|religi|belief|was|in
harmonv|with|the|doctrin|of|the|baptist|church|and|he|die|in|that|faith|at
l|6c
q|cyc
c0xgressi0x4l|district|of|xejj|jersey|four hundred and thirty-seven
his|home|in|canton|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|at|the|age|of|eighti|year|his
wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|at|tlie|age|of|seventyfour|year|in|their|famili
were|eight|children|susan|die|in|infanc|daniel|f|a|blacksmith|at
canton|who|serv|in|the|twentyfourth|xew|jersey|infantr|for|nine
month|and|particip|in|the|l|attl|of|fredericksburg|and|chancellor
vill|marri|sarah|hancock|and|had|two|son|william|t|and|jame
benjamin|is|the|third|of|the|famili|william|marri|iydia|simpkin|and
had|a|son|illard|joanna|becam|the|wife|of|georg|thoma|and|their
children|were|orest|and|mari|elizabeth|marri|samuel|shimp|and
their|children|were|benjamin|who|die|at|the|age|of|three|year|and|frank
phoeb|who|becam|the|wife|of|samuel|newkirk|a|resid|of|canton|new
jersey|and|they|have|two|children|edward|and|jenni
benjamin|hancock|whose|name|introduc|this|rexiew|was|educ
in|the|common|school|of|canton|until|ten|year|of|age|when|he|remov|to
hopewel|township|cumberland|counti|he|afterward|live|in|dutch|neck
and|afterward|at|bridgeton|new|jersey|in|these|place|he|pursu|his
studi|until|twentyon|year|of|age|after|which|he|engag|in|teach
sing|school|in|cumberland|and|salem|counti|for|seven|term|devot
his|energi|to|that|profess|through|the|winter|season|and|in|the|summer
engag|in|agricultur|pursuit
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|mr|hancock|becam|a|resid|of|bridgeton|and|was|made|sec
retari|of|the|cumberland|lumber|compani|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|went|west
to|bloomington|illinoi|where|he|spent|ten|month|and|on|his|return|in
one|eighty-seven|one|he|purchas|the|interest|of|martin|g|carsten|in|the|firm|of|carsten
smith|dealer|in|stove|tinwar|shelfwar|etc|under|the|firm|name|of
smith|hancock|they|carri|on|busi|until|novemb|of|that|year
when|the|senior|partner|sold|his|interest|to|elmer|e|johnson|and|the|firm
of|johnson|hancock|was|form|and|carri|on|busi|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|when
mr|hancock|becam|the|sole|proprietor|he|has|a|larg|stock|of|parlor
ofc|and|cookstov|rang|heater|and|furnac|plain|and|japan|tin
ware|glass|and|agat|ware|and|a|general|assort|of|housefurnish
good|his|store|build|on|east|commerc|street|is|commodi|and|well
adapt|to|the|purpos|use|mr|hancock|howev|has|not|confin|his
effort|to|this|line|for|be|a|man|of|resourc|busi|abil|his|labor
have|encompass|other|busi|interest|and|today|he|is|connect|with
various|concern|which|not|onli|promot|his|individu|welfar|but|add|to
the|general|prosper|he|was|a|director|of|the|bridgeton|nation|bank
and|is|also|a|director|and|presid|of|the|bridgeton|save|fund|build
ing|associ|he|is|now|the|presid|of|the|cumberland|trust|com
panv|which|doe|a|general|ijank|busi|includ|a|sa|and|trust
four hundred and thirty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
this|corpor|was|organ|in|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|occupi|a|larg|brick
block|twentytwo|by|eighti|feet|and|handsom|finish|in|mahogani|trim
ming|it|is|wellequip|for|the|purpos|indic|and|the|busi|of|the
compani|has|been|constant|grow|in|volum|and|import|it|direc
torat|compris|the|name|of|some|of|the|best|men|of|the|counti|and|the
fact|that|mr|hancock|is|at|it|head|is|an|assur|of|it|reliabl|and|trust
worthi
t|all|time|mr|hancock|has|been|loyal|to|his|duti|of|citizenship|and
in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he|gave|evid|of|his|patriot|spirit|by|join|com
pani|f|twentyfourth|regiment|of|new|jersey|volunt|which|serv|in
virginia|and|particip|in|the|battl|of|fredericksburg|and|chancellor
vill|he|was|alway|faith|in|his|duti|to|the|becaus|repres|by|the|old
flag|and|in|a|more|quiet|way|he|has|ever|labor|for|the|welfar|of|the|com
muniti|with|which|he|is|connect|he|is|a|truste|of|the|south|jersey|in
stitut|and|the|presid|of|the|board|and|the|becaus|of|educ|has|ever
found|in|him|a|warm|friend|for|nine|year|he|has|been|a|member|of|the
school|board|of|bridgeton|and|is|now|it|presid|and|the|high|standard
maintain|in|the|school|is|due|in|no|small|degre|to|his|effort|in|behalf|of
educ|interest|of|the|town|in|polit|he|is|a|republican|and|for
five|year|was|a|meml|er|of|the|hoard|of|chosen|freehold|serv|for|three
year|as|it|presid|he|was|for|nine|year|a|memljer|of|the|citi|council|as
a|repres|of|the|third|ward|be|elect|as|a|temper|issu|on
the|republican|ticket|for|two|term|and|for|one|term|as|an|independ
candid
on|the|24th|of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|mr|hancock|was|marri|to|miss|laura
i|major|a|daughter|of|c|major|a|retir|farmer|of|bloomington|illinoi
they|have|one|child|mabel|clair|at|home|the|famili|hold|member
ship|in|the|berean|baptist|church|in|bridgeton|and|mr|hancock|is|serv
as|one|of|it|deacon|for|forti|year|he|has|been|a|choirlead|and|for
sever|year|has|been|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|his|kind
face|and|help|manner|at|onc|give|evid|of|his|charact|he|is|ever
readi|to|assist|those|who|are|anxious|to|help|themsel|and|his|word|of
encourag|and|counsel|as|well|as|materi|aid|have|enabl|mani|a
young|man|to|pass|over|the|rough|place|in|the|journey|of|life|he|has
realiz|the|import|of|develop|along|physic|mental|and|moral
line|that|man|s|natur|is|in|this|respect|a|triniti|and|that|the|greatest|good
can|be|realiz|by|the|proper|improv|of|the|three|forc|of|his|natur
while|activ|and|energet|in|busi|he|is|alway|straightforward|and|re
liabl|and|though|his|interest|are|extens|he|has|ever|found|time|to|devot
to|the|affair|which|lead|to|intellectu|and|moral|improement
congressiox|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and thirty-nine
charl|c|ford
this|gentleman|is|the|well|known|and|popular|proprietor|of|the|ford
hotel|of|salem|one|of|the|lead|hotel|in|this|section|of|the|state|by
well|direct|efifort|he|has|attain|an|enviabl|posit|in|busi|circl
and|is|a|popular|and|respect|citizen|whose|circl|of|friend|is|almost|co
extens|with|the|circl|of|his|acquaint
a|nativ|of|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|he|was|born|on|the|28th|of
march|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|his|parent|be|thoma|and|rebecca|paul|ford|the
famili|is|of|english|origin|and|has|long|been|identifi|with|the|histori|of
new|jersey|the|first|of|the|name|have|locat|in|the|state|dure|the|colo
nial|epoch|of|the|countri|s|annal|william|ford|grandfath|of|our
subject|was|a|well|known|agriculturist|who|settl|near|paulsboro|glou
cester|counti|becom|one|of|the|lead|citizen|of|that|communiti|in
one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|lydia|thompson|and|to|them|were
born|the|follow|name|children|illiam|margaret|wife|of|joshua
pine|lydia|wife|of|noah|gibson|john|maria|wife|of|adrian|paul|abbi
wife|of|john|mulford|anna|wife|of|thoma|wilson|and|thoma|the
last|name|was|born|novemb|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|on|the|loth|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five
marri|miss|rebecca|paul|who|was|born|novemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and two|their|union
was|bless|with|the|follow|children|georg|t|who|was|born|novemb
twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|and|die|octob|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|charl|c|lydia|who|was|born|octo
ber|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|becam|tlie|wife|of|absalom|r|leal|and|die|august|twenty-nine
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|william|bom|decemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|mari|c|who|was|born|decemb
two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|is|the|wife|of|william|c|kirbi|anna|who|was|born|octob
twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|becam|the|wife|of|william|c|kirbi|and|die|august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two
and|rebecca|h|who|was|born|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|thoma|ford|the|father|of
these|children|was|an|enterpris|farmer|upright|and|honor|in|all
thing|and|was|wide|and|favor|known|in|the|communiti|in|which|he
made|his|home|he|was|a|whig|in|his|polit|affili|in|earli|life|but
on|the|organ|of|the|republican|parti|join|it|rank|and|was|one|of
it|loyal|advoc|until|his|death|which|occur|juli|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight
charl|c|ford|salem|s|well|known|repres|of|this|old|and|hon
ore|famili|spent|his|boyhood|day|upon|the|farm|it|is|remark|what|a
great|proport|of|our|lead|men|in|busi|and|public|life|have|come
from|the|farm|rear|amid|the|strengthen|and|ennobl|influenc|of
natur|they|are|well|fit|to|cope|with|the|question|which|are|daili|come
up|for|settlement|in|commerci|circl|and|with|unbias|judgment|they
pass|upon|the|question|of|state|and|nation|import|amid|the|scene
of|rural|life|mr|ford|was|rear|and|as|soon|as|old|enough|to|handl|the
four hundred and forty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
plow|he|perform|his|share|of|the|labor|connect|with|the|develop
and|cultiv|of|the|field|after|attain|his|major|he|began|farm
on|his|own|account|and|was|identifi|with|the|agricultur|interest|of|the
counti|until|forti|year|of|age|when|he|enter|the|hotel|busi|at|wood
town|salem|counti|he|becam|proprietor|of|the|washington|hotel|which
he|conduct|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|he|took|charg|of|the|nelson|hotel|in|salem
manag|the|same|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|in|that|year|he|erect|the|ford|hotel
which|was|open|in|septemb|of|the|same|year|it|is|the|lead|hotel|in
the|counti|and|one|of|the|best|in|southern|new|jersey|be|equip|with
all|the|necessari|modern|conveni|includ|good|ventil|and|tast
ful|furnitur|the|cuisin|offer|mani|attract|and|the|excel|enter
tainment|afford|the|guest|secur|a|liber|patronag|the|hotel|has|in
deed|found|favor|with|the|travel|puljlic|and|the|proprietor|is|also|veri
popular
in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|ford|and|miss|hannah|f
moor|a|daughter|of|joseph|h|moor|of|greenwich|gloucest|counti
new|jersey|they|have|four|children|john|j|now|a|practic|attorney
of|salem|florenc|v|who|is|the|widow|of|alfr|t|burr|and|has|a
daughter|ethel|m|burr|mari|b|and|charl|c|the|famili|is|one|of
promin|in|the|communiti|it|member|hold|an|enviabl|posit|in
social|circl|mr|ford|is|a|republican|in|his|polit|affili|and|a
leader|in|all|public|enterpris|and|movement|which|tend|to|advanc|the
welfar|and|upbuild|of|the|citi|his|social|qualiti|and|genial|dispo
sition|render|him|a|favorit|w|ith|his|patron|and|his|earnest|desir|to|pleas
them|make|him|well|deserv|of|the|success|which|is|attend|his|labor
jacob|hous
jacolj|hous|a|substanti|and|wealthi|resid|of|the|illag|of|lloway
is|a|son|of|jonathan|and|franc|blackwood|hous|and|was|born|januari
seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|in|alloway|creek|township|this|counti|on|the|same|land|and|in
the|same|hous|in|which|sever|generat|of|the|famili|were|born|and
which|he|now|own|his|greatgrandfath|was|jacob|hous|who|came
here|at|an|earli|day|and|was|an|expert|glasswork|employ|in|the|first
factori|oper|in|salem|and|built|by|a|mr|wistar|the|name|is|a|contrac
tion|of|houseman|common|usag|chang|it|to|the|shorter|name|hous
he|was|a|soldier|for|american|liberti|as|was|his|brother|jonathan|and|live
to|the|ripe|of|age|die|decemb|twenty-one|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|he|also|engag|in|agri
cultur|pursuit|and|marri|lari|oakford|who|was|born|august|five|one thousand, seven hundred and forty
coxgressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|four hundred and forty-one
a|daughter|of|william|oakford|a|larg|landown|of|this|township|their
children|were|anna|born|april|eight|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-five|margaret|bom|januari|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight
william|ist|born|juli|eighteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|and|william|2d|born|novemb|2j
one|seventy-seven|one|william|hous|the|grandfath|was|born|in|the|littl|brick|hous
which|was|erect|by|his|father|and|becam|a|farmer|of|some|mean|own
some|two|or|three|thousand|acr|of|land|in|upper|alloway|creek|town
ship|which|was|divid|among|his|two|children|at|his|death|he|was|an
influenti|man|of|his|time|and|held|mani|ofific|of|trust|he|was|marri
may|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|to|miss|sarah|wood|who|was|born|juli|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|and|bore
him|two|children|jonathan|the|father|of|our|subject|and|mari|who|was
born|januari|two|one thousand, eight hundred and one|and|was|the|wife|of|william|sherron|both|parent
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and two|at|an|earli|age|the|mother|be|in|her|thirtieth|year|and|the
father|three|year|older
jonathan|hous|the|father|was|born|septemb|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|in|the|littl
brick|hous|on|the|old|homestead|and|was|a|child|in|his|fourth|year|when
he|was|depriv|of|his|parent|his|uncl|john|ood|took|both|littl
one|to|his|home|and|care|for|them|until|they|went|to|home|of|their|own
jonathan|grew|to|manhood|and|becam|a|tiller|of|the|soil|and|also|oper
a|sawmil|and|built|a|number|of|ship|he|own|a|larg|acreag|and|his|last
day|were|spent|on|his|farm|he|was|a|warm|sympath|with|the|democ
raci|and|serv|on|town|committe|for|sever|year|was|a|lay|judg|of
this|counti|and|was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|his|chief|pleasur
was|deriv|from|his|own|firesid|and|as|a|busi|man|he|had|few|superior
his|wife|was|miss|franc|blackwood|who|bore|him|three|son|and|two
daughter|viz|william|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|was|a|merchant|and|sur
veyor|of|this|villag|where|he|die|in|his|fiftyeighth|year|his|wife|was|eliza
beth|carll|by|whom|he|had|one|son|john|now|deceas|mari|h|marri
david|ewen|of|alloway|ann|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|marri|edward|white
sinc|deceas|a|surrog|of|cumberland|counti|and|a|resid|of|bridg
ton|their|children|are|fanni|and|mari|jacob|our|subject|and|jonathan
who|is|elsewher|repres|in|this|work
jacob|hous|attend|the|public|school|at|alloway|union|academi
shiloh|and|at|the|age|of|twenti|year|enter|a|larg|wholesal|groceri
hous|at|philadelphia|where|he|clerk|for|some|time|he|then|return
home|and|becam|a|farmer|move|on|the|farm|in|i860|and|remain|there
fortyeight|year|on|the|old|homestead|which|had|come|into|his|possess
befor|he|retir|from|activ|work|and|took|up|his|resid|in|the|villag
of|alloway|he|own|one|hundr|acr|of|fine|land|there|and|consider
timber|land|one|of|the|largest|tract|of|firstgrowth|timber|in|the|counti
belong|to|him|he|oper|a|sawmil|and|make|larg|quantiti|of|lum
four hundred and forty-two
biograph|histori|of|the|first
ber|which|find|a|readi|sale|he|has|been|director|of|the|salem|nation
bank|compani|for|sever|year|and|is|a|care|busi|man
mr|hous|was|marri|septemb|six|i860|to|miss|sarah|a|shimp|a
daughter|of|john|shimp|a|merchant|of|alloway|they|have|four|children
oakford|born|march|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|is|a|clerk|for|the|salem|bank|compani
marri|a|miss|fox|and|has|one|child|beryl|harri|was|born|april|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four
and|is|a|clerk|in|a|store|at|mantua|he|marri|margaret|bell|and|has|four
children|leon|herbert|william|and|an|infant|mari|born|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six
marri|harri|pettit|a|travel|salesman|of|salem|and|has|one|child|mari
and|sarah|viola|born|novemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|live|at|home|mr|hous|is
a|democrat|but|has|never|dabbl|in|polit|he|is|a|member|of|the|ind
pendent|order|of|odd|fellow|and|has|been|the|secretari|of|his|lodg|sinc
it|organ|twentyf|year|ago|in|alloway|and|he|is|a|member|of|the
knight|of|pythia|his|religi|view|are|indic|by|the|fact|that|he|is
a|member|of|the|orthodox|societi|of|friend
william|oakford|marri|rebecca|mott|and|was|a|larg|landown|of
alloway|township|he|was|a|farmer|and|took|an|activ|part|in|local|affair
and|die|in|a|small|brick|hous|which|he|had|erect|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-six|on|his|farm
of|one|hundr|acr|which|is|now|in|possess|of|our|subject|he|had
two|children|letitia|mrs|noblet|of|ilmington|delawar|and|mari
who|marri|jacob|hous|the|greatgrandfath
charl|c|tessup
one|of|the|busiest|most|energet|and|most|enterpris|men|of|wood
buri|new|jersey|is|charl|clark|jessup|who|occupi|the|posit|of
presid|of|the|first|nation|bank|his|has|been|an|honor|busi
career|in|which|he|has|steadili|work|his|way|upward|to|a|place|of|promi
nenc|in|financi|circl|bank|institut|are|the|heart|of|the|com
mercial|bodi|indic|the|health|of|trade|and|the|bank|that|follow
a|safe|conserv|polici|doe|more|to|establish|public|confid|in|time
of|widespread|financi|depress|than|anyth|els|such|a|cours|has
the|first|nation|bank|of|woodburi|follow|under|the|abl|manag
of|it|presid|whose|reliabl|and|trustworthi|combin|with|busi
ness|sagac|have|made|him|one|of|the|most|success|as|well|as|lead
repres|of|financi|interest|in|this|section|of|the|state
mr|jessup|is|also|a|repres|of|one|of|the|oldest|and|most|promi
nent|famili|of|gloucest|counti|he|was|born|in|harrison|township
march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|his|parent|be|joseph|and|mari|clark|jessup|the
js
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and forty-three
famili|is|of|englisli|extract|and|was|found|in|america|by|john|jessup
the|greatgreatgrandfath|of|our|subject|who|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-seven|locat|in|glouc
ter|counti|take|up|his|abod|near|the|illag|of|woodburi|in|what|was
then|the|township|of|deptford|littl|record|remain|concern|his|life
but|it|is|general|suppos|that|he|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|he
marri|margaret|wittic|and|unto|them|were|born|two|children|john|and
mari|whose|descend|are|now|live|in|mani|section|of|this|countri
the|daughter|becam|the|wife|of|samuel|mifflin|of|virginia|and|the|son
who|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|marri|elizabeth|balling|by|whom|he|had|three
children|jame|born|novemb|six|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|sarah|born|septemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-one
and|john|born|novemb|sixteen|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three|sarah|jessup|becam|the|wife|of
joshua|lord|and|had|a|famili|of|six|children|name|mari|jame|john
elizabeth|hester|and|benjamin|john|was|twice|marri|his|first|wife|be
deborah|wilkin|whom|he|wed|novemlj|fifteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|by|whom|he
had|four|children|isaac|wilkin|sarah|william|and|john|the|second
wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of|sarah|wood|and|her|children|were|elizabeth
and|charl|jame|jessup|who|belong|to|the|same|famili|was|one|of
the|ancestor|of|the|subject|of|this|sketch|he|marri|sarah|west|and|unto
them|were|born|five|children|john|jame|joseph|mari|and|west|the
first|name|john|jessup|was|twice|marri|and|by|the|first|union|had|two
children|sarah|and|hannah|ann|for|his|second|wife|he|chose|mari
reev|and|they|had|one|daughter|mari|jame|marri|abigail|fisher
and|their|children|were|georg|rebecca|mari|abigail|and|two|who|were
accident|drown|in|earli|life|west|the|youngest|child|of|jame|and
sarah|west|jessup|marri|martha|cooper|and|their|children|were|john
w|cooper|hannah|sarah|now|deceas|jame|david|deceas|loui
and|jame|who|die|in|childhood|joseph|jessup|was|the|father|of|our|sub
ject|and|is|repres|elsewher|in|this|volum
in|take|up|the|person|histori|of|charl|clark|jessup|we|present|to
our|reader|the|life|record|of|one|who|is|wide|and|favor|known|in|west
ern|new|jersey|he|attend|the|district|school|of|his|nativ|place|and|later
complet|his|educ|by|a|threeyear|cours|in|the|west|jersey|academi
at|bndgeton|this|state|on|lay|asid|his|textbook|he|embark|in
general|merchandis|and|in|the|lumber|busi|at|mantua|gloucest
counti|form|a|partnership|under|the|firm|name|of|scott|jessup|he
was|thus|engag|when|he|retir|from|the|firm|and|went|to|philadelphia
where|he|engag|in|deal|in|hous|furnish|at|the|corner|of|ninth|and
market|street|that|ventur|prove|to|be|a|veri|success|one|mr|jes
sup|dispos|of|his|busi|and|return|to|oodburi|where|his|well|known
abil|cafis|him|to|be|appoint|a|director|of|the|first|nation|bank|on
four hundred and forty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|tirst
the|3d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|three|year|later|on|the|31st|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he
was|made|the|vice|presid|of|the|institut|and|on|the|ist|of|octob
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|was|chosen|the|presid|which|posit|he|has|sinc|accept|fill
he|is|a|man|of|keen|discrimin|of|sound|judgment|and|resolut|purpos
qualiti|which|are|ever|essenti|to|the|success|conduct|of|a|financi|in
stitut
on|the|5th|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|in|oodbuy|mr|jessup|was|unit|in|mar
riag|to|miss|abbi|t|reev|a|daughter|of|thoma|and|isabella|m|reev
their|union|has|been|bless|with|two|children|isabella|k|born|novemb
twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|edward|c|bom|octob|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|the|mother|is|a|ladi|of
kind|heart|and|gracious|disposit|who|hold|membership|in|the|presbi
terian|church|the|servic|of|which|her|famili|attend|contribut|liber
to|the|support|of|the|church|in|it|various|branch|of|christian|work|mr
jessup|is|quiet|and|unassum|in|manner|yet|at|all|time|courteous|and
pleas|win|friend|by|his|genial|disposit|and|honor|charact
which|command|the|respect|of|all|he|is|publicspirit|in|an|emin|de
gree|and|dure|the|year|of|his|resid|in|woodburi|has|given|his|aid
to|whatev|is|calcul|to|promot|the|general|welfar|in|everi|relat|of
life|he|has|been|true|and|faith|and|over|the|record|of|his|activ|career
there|fall|no|shadow|of|wrong|and|no|suspicion|of|evil|darken|his|pathway
r|curti|robinson
r|curti|robinson|is|a|repres|of|the|two|branch|of|busi
which|have|contribut|most|larg|to|the|upbuild|of|town|and|to|the|ad
vancement|of|their|progress|and|prosper|realest|and|journal
the|man|who|handl|the|properti|interest|can|larg|make|or|mar|the
place|the|improv|which|he|institut|may|be|attract|but|he|must
also|exercis|care|in|his|sale|so|that|a|desir|and|substanti|class|of|citi
zen|will|form|the|popul|of|the|town|which|he|repres|and|thus|insur
it|futur|growth|along|line|of|materi|intellectu|and|social|progress
the|realest|dealer|who|follow|these|principl|will|thus|la|the|founda
tion|for|the|establish|of|a|citi|which|will|be|a|power|in|the|state|it
ever|widen|circl|of|influenc|be|manifest|in|the|format|of|the
public|polici|of|the|commonwealth
it|has|also|been|said|that|there|is|no|surer|indic|of|the|charact
of|a|town|than|it|newspap|the|bright|and|enterpris|journal|of|pure
tone|is|an|unmistak|evid|of|the|charact|of|the|peopl|who|gnve
it|it|support|and|whom|it|repres|at|the|same|time|the|editor|is|in|a
congressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and forty-five
posit|where|he|can|mold|pubhc|opinion|in|a|way|that|few|other|can|do
and|his|support|of|a|measur|will|usual|secur|it|a|larg|follow|so|tliat
great|respons|rest|upon|him|in|shape|the|public|mind
in|both|depart|of|labor|ir|robinson|has|promot|the|interest
of|ocean|citv|and|no|record|of|this|attract|town|would|v|e|complet
without|mention|of|him|whose|name|introduc|this|review|he|was|born
march|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|in|what|is|now|pleasantvill|atlant|counti|new|jersey
a|son|of|captain|r|a|and|hannah|conov|robinson|his|patern
grandfath|resid|at|that|place|his|father|also|a|resid|of|pleasantvill
was|a|sea|captain|and|die|at|delawar|breakwat|pennsylvania|when
our|subject|was|onli|nine|year|of|age|dure|the|civil|war|he|was|draft
for|the|servic|but|furnish|a|substitut|in|the|famili|were|but|two|chil
dren|the|daughter|be|ida|v|who|marri|daniel|b|mason|a|farmer
and|painter|bv|whom|she|had|three|children|william|b|luana|w|and
curti|after|the|death|of|her|first|husband|she|becam|the|wife|of|harri
c|barn|a|roofer|by|trade|but|now|in|the|employ|of|the|fire|depart
they|have|two|children|reba|and|eddi|the|father|of|our|subject|die
juli|twenty-six|one|eighty-seven|one|at|the|age|of|fortytwo|year|but|the|mother|who|was|born
octob|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|is|still|live
mr|robinson|of|this|review|attend|the|public|school|of|atlant
countv|until|fourteen|year|of|age|but|in|the|month|of|vacat|he|con
tribut|to|his|own|support|by|work|at|anyth|that|he|could|get|to|do
from|the|age|of|nine|year|when|his|father|die|he|cultiv|habit|of|in
dustrv|and|frugal|and|thus|laid|the|foundat|for|his|present|credit
success|when|a|youth|of|fourteen|he|becam|a|clerk|in|a|drygood|store
in|philadelphia|but|find|that|occup|uncongeni|he|studi|civil
engin|to|which|he|devot|his|energi|for|a|short|time|he|after
ward|learn|the|printer|s|trade|enter|upon|his|apprenticeship|in|the
offic|of|the|banner|of|bever|new|jersey|he|later|accept|a|posit
in|the|employ|of|a|l|english|of|the|atlant|review|at|atlant|citi
and|continu|in|his|servic|for|six|year|dure|that|time|he|was|the|edi
tor|and|manag|of|the|may|s|land|record|and|the|assist|editor|of
the|philadelphia|journal|over|the|mountain|and|down|by|the|sea|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|came|to|ocean|citi|to|accept|the|posit|of|editor|of|the|sentinel
and|in|juli|of|that|year|in|connect|with|w|h|fenton|he|purchas
that|paper|in|octob|of|the|same|year|he|bought|his|partner|s|interest
and|has|sinc|been|sole|proprietor
the|sentinel|is|a|week|journal|have|a|larg|circul|but|dure
the|summer|month|of|juli|and|august|mr|robinson|publish|a|daili
paper|and|the|larg|patronag|which|this|receis|indic|the|demand
four hundred and forty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
for|such|a|pul|licat|it|is|call|the|ocean|citi|daili|report|the
sentinel|is|a|republican|sheet|of|four|page|of|eight|column|each|and|the
newspap|plant|is|complet|in|all|it|appoint|be|equip|with
cottrel|son|press|and|gordon|job|press|the|paper|which|he
issu|are|neat|and|attract|in|appear|and|their|entertain|read
matter|has|been|the|mean|of|bring|to|him|a|larg|and|constant|increa
ing|busi|their|extens|circul|make|them|a|good|advertis
medium|and|this|branch|of|the|busi|therefor|add|materi|to|the
incom|of|the|editor|and|proprietor
mr|robinson|also|own|consider|real|estat|in|ocean|citi|and|has
been|engag|in|the|purchas|and|sale|of|properti|as|an|invest|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
he|is|also|an|insur|agent|repres|the|norwich|union|and|the|ger
manamerican|compani|his|polit|support|is|unwav|given|to
the|republican|parti|and|he|doe|all|in|his|power|to|promot|it|growth
and|insur|it|success|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|elect|a|freehold|from|ocean|citi
but|the|follow|year|resign|in|order|to|accept|the|posit|of|postmast
to|which|he|was|appoint|by|presid|harrison|and|he|held|this|offic|for
four|and|a|half|year|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|elect|one|of|the|cor
oner|of|cape|may|counti|for|a|term|of|three|year|and|upon|the|incorpora
tion|of|ocean|citi|as|a|citi|he|was|select|the|superintend|and|secretari
of|the|board|of|educ|and|has|serv|in|the|latter|capac|continu
sinc|he|has|alway|been|a|warm|friend|of|the|public|school|labor|ear
nest|and|effect|in|their|behalf|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|ocean|citi
volunt|fire|depart
on|the|8th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|mr|robinson|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|addel|corson|a|daughter|of|young|corson|a|flour|and|feed|merchant
and|realest|dealer|of|ocean|citi|and|to|them|was|born|a|son|richard
s|but|they|lost|the|littl|one|in|infanc|of|various|fratern|organiza
tion|mr|robinson|is|a|repres|hold|membership|in|ocean|cit
lodg|no|one hundred and seventy-one|f|a|m|iota|council|no|one hundred and twenty-six|j|o|you|a|m|and
ocean|citi|council|no|ten|daughter|of|america|a|branch|of|the|junior
order|of|unit|american|mechan|he|was|also|at|one|time|a|member
of|the|red|men|a|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|has|long
serv|on|it|board|of|truste|and|was|it|presid|for|sever|year|it
is|the|charact|of|the|man|which|determin|his|posit|in|life|and|that
mr|robinson|is|regard|as|one|of|the|lead|and|influenti|citizen|of
ocean|citi|is|due|to|the|principl|which|permeat|his|life|and|control|his
action|he|is|a|man|of|sterl|worth|well|worthi|the|uniform|confid
which|his|friend|have|in|him
coxgressiox|district|of|xeif|jersey|four hundred and forty-seven
alexand|b|hew
the|firm|of|hew|alitchel|hold|an|import|place|in|the|busi
interest|of|savedesboro|these|gentlemen|be|proprietor|of|the|larg|grist
and|saw|mill|at|that|place|the|senior|member|of|the|firm|was|born|in
woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|januari|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and|is|a|son|of
thoma|b|and|rebecca|black|hew|the|father|who|was|also|bom|in
gloucest|counti|was|a|carpent|by|trade|but|for|mani|year|befor|his
death|was|success|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|he|was|a|stanch
republican|and|a|man|who|stood|high|in|his|communiti|he|die|decem
ber|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|at|the|age|of|eightyon|year|his|wife|surviv|him|until|the
spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|when|she|pass|away|age|eightythre|year|the|famili
of|this|wonhv|coupl|compris|nine|children|as|follow|marietta|who
becam|the|wife|of|i|h|vanneman|and|resid|in|swedesboro|samuel|who
was|kill|dure|the|civil|war|frank|who|went|to|philadelphia|and|was
never|heard|of|afterward|anna|william|resid|in|the|state|of|wash
ton|thoma|b|a|farmer|georg|who|die|when|seven|year|old|alex
ander|b|and|one|who|die|in|infanc
alexand|b|was|educ|in|the|enion|and|oak|grove|school|of|his
nativ|place|and|bridgeport|and|in|a|privat|school|at|swedesboro|for
mani|year|after|arriv|at|manhood|he|carri|on|farm|to|a|larg|extent
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|m|compani|with|georg|b|mitchel|he|purchas|the|grist|and
saw|mill|at|swedesboro|this|mill|was|built|in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|and|was|onc|own
and|oper|for|a|number|of|year|by|exgovernor|stratton|sinc|come
into|the|hand|of|hew|litchel|it|has|been|thorough|refit|and
suppli|with|modern|machineri|and|turn|out|excel|work|it|water
power|equal|eightyhors|power|and|it|steam|power|is|sixtyhors|power
and|besid|nmning|the|mill|suppli|power|for|the|swedesboro|electr
light|plant|the|properti|includ|consider|land|adjoin|the|mill|and
also|a|strip|embrac|water|privileg|for|some|distanc|up|the|coun
tri|creek|in|all|about|sixtysix|acr|the|firm|do|a|general|mill|flour
feed|and|grain|busi|chiefli|of|a|local|natur|but|also|import|a|larg
amount|of|grain
mr|hew|and|sarah|hur|the|latter|a|daughter|of|aaron|hurlif|of
swedesboro|were|marri|june|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|have|had|one|child|sarah|anna
who|die|januarv|twenty-nine|one thousand, nine hundred|they|are|member|of|the|episcop|church|of
which|thev|are|generous|support|and|are|ever|readi|to|assist|not|onli|in
church|work|but|also|in|ani|project|which|has|for|it|object|the|upbuild
of|the|town|in|which|they|live|in|polit|mr|hew|is|an|independ
republican
four hundred and forty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
lawrenc|lock
long|year|of|activ|busi|sliould|he|follow|by|an|honor|retir
ment|from|labor|that|one|may|enjoy|the|fruit|of|former|toil|and|the|rest|that
is|truli|earn|mr|lock|is|one|to|whom|this|has|been|vouchsaf|and
today|he|is|number|among|the|respect|and|retir|farmer|of|woolwich
township|gloucest|counti|he|was|born|april|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|on|the|farm|which
is|now|own|by|georg|m|hall|and|is|a|son|of|john|s|and|hannah|tay
lor|lock|his|father|was|a|nativ|of|woolwich|township|gloucest
counti|where|he|follow|farm|throughout|his|entir|life|and|was|a
colonel|of|militia|dure|the|day|that|militari|organ|had|exist
the|patern|grandpar|of|mr|lock|were|jona|and|sarah|spark
lock|the|former|was|born|march|eight|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-seven|the|latter|may|three|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-two|and
their|marriag|was|celebr|march|three|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-three|their|children|were|as|fol
low|christian|who|was|born|april|two|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-four|and|die|iniarch|five
one thousand, eight hundred and one|benjamin|was|born|august|twenty-three|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-five|and|die|march|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five
thoma|born|decemb|thirteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven|john|born|march|twenty-seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|jona|who
was|born|april|two|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|and|die|march|five|one thousand, eight hundred and one|charl|who|was|born|juli
twenty|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|and|die|octob|eleven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|sarah|ann|who|was|born|june|i
one thousand, eight hundred|and|marri|thoma|piatt
john|s|lock|the|father|of|our|suljject|deot|his|energi|to|agricul
tural|pursuit|and|arriv|at|the|year|of|matur|he|marri|miss|hannah
taylor|a|daughter|of|samuel|and|naomi|fisher|taylor|who|die|sep
tember|twenty-three|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and|januari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|respect|after|the|death|of|her
first|husband|mr|taylor|marri|a|mr|miller|her|father|was|a|captain
in|the|revolutionari|war|and|own|a|larg|tract|of|land|lie|between
swedesboro|and|the|delawar|river|lnto|john|s|and|hannah|taylor
lock|were|born|the|follow|children|joseph|h|who|was|born|septem
ber|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|and|die|in|st|loui|missouri|samuel|t|who|was|born|feb
ruari|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|and|die|at|tom|s|river|new|jersey|sarah|e|who|was
born|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|and|is|the|wife|of|asa|robert|a|resid|of|mullica
hill|this|state|lawrenc|of|this|review|rebecca|ann|who|was|born|de
cember|seven|one|eighty-two|one|and|is|now|deceas|naomi|who|was|born|decemb|twenty-nine
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|and|is|deceas|former|the|wife|of|jame|chatten|a|resid|of
mullica|hill|harriet|who|was|born|august|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|and|die|in|childhood
john|s|who|was|born|juli|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|resid|in|st|loui|missouri|cath
erin|who|was|born|nlarch|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|is|the|wife|of|jame|chatten|ara
bella|deceas|who|was|born|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|was|the|wife|of|john|r
gill|of|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|felix|f|who|was|born|au
gust|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|is|now|deceas|and|enoch|ho|was|born|juli|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six
and|has|also|pass|away
ciyourtc|sjttcj
congression|district|of|nejj|jersey|four hundred and forty-nine
mr|lock|of|this|review|was|educ|in|the|common|school|in|his
nativ|township|and|assist|his|father|on|the|home|farm|until|twentyf
year|of|age|when|he|began|the|oper|of|one|of|his|father|s|farm|near
repaupo|and|cultiv|this|tract|for|three|year|he|then|went|to|loui
ton|pennsylvania|where|he|engag|in|the|poultri|l|usi|for|six|month
after|which|he|return|to|the|old|homestead|where|he|farm|for|nine
year|he|then|remov|to|hardingvill|new|jersey|where|lie|carri|on
agricultur|pursuit|for|six|year|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|he|purchas|his|present|farm
of|eightyf|acr|near|the|drawbridg|on|raccoon|creek|below|swede
boro|li|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|built|his|resid|and|all|of|the|other|build|upon|the
place|stand|as|monument|to|his|thrift|and|enterpris|his|progress|farm
ing|method|his|unfalt|energi|and|his|capabl|manag|brought
to|him|success|which|now|enabl|him|to|live|retir
mr|lock|was|marri|on|the|17th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|to|miss|anna|mariah
paul|a|daughter|of|adrian|paul|of|paulsboro|she|die|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|in
their|famili|were|six|children|anna|who|becam|the|wife|of|william|string
and|die|at|the|age|of|thirtythre|year|mariah|howard|v|who|now|oper
ate|his|father|s|farm|adrian|of|swedesboro|john|who|was|kill|by|a|train
at|salt|lake|citi|and|emma|mr|lock|and|his|famili|are|member|of
triniti|episcop|church|of|swedesboro|of|which|he|has|been|for|mani|year
a|vestryman|he|is|a|republican|in|polit|and|was|a|member|of|the|new
jersey|legislatur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|and|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|on|the|expir|of|his|term|he
declin|a|reelect|although|his|offici|servic|was|such|that|his|constitu
ent|vish|to|return|him|to|the|offic|he|has|serv|as|a|member|of|the
township|committe|of|clayton|township|and|has|been|the|surveyor|of|high
way|in|the|township|where|he|now|make|his|home|for|long|year|he|has
been|regard|as|one|of|the|lead|and|influenti|citizen|of|the|communiti
for|his|opinion|on|matter|of|public|moment|are|usual|character|by
calm|deliber|and|sound|judgment|and|color|by|mark|loyalti|to|the
public|good|he|is|now|well|aflvanc|in|year|ha|almost|reach|the
eightieth|annual|mileston|in|life|s|journev|and|in|the|even|of|life|he|is
crown|with|the|vener|and|respect|which|should|ever|l|e|accord|an
honor|old|age
henri|pancoast
henrv|pancoast|resid|in|oolwich|township|gloucest|countv|upon
a|farm|which|he|has|made|his|home|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|the|place|compris|nineti
five|acr|of|arabl|land|the|greater|part|of|which|is|under|a|high|state|of
cultiv|and|therefor|indic|to|the|passersliy|the|enterpris|and
four hundred and fifty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
progress|spirit|of|tlie|owner|tlie|farm|is|improv|wit|excel|and
substanti|build|which|stand|as|monument|to|his|l|usi|abil|and
skill|though|he|began|life|emptyhand|he|has|overcom|all|the|difificul
tie|and|obstacl|in|the|road|to|success|and|today|is|account|one|of|the
prosper|resid|of|this|communiti
henri|pancoast|is|a|nativ|of|pilesgrov|township|salem|counti|new
jersey|his|birth|have|occur|on|the|28th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|he|is
the|eldest|of|the|seven|children|of|charl|and|elizabeth|hackney|pancoast
also|nativ|of|salem|counti|and|is|a|cousin|of|edward|pancoast|who|was
a|farmer|in|that|counti|his|brother|and|sister|are|hannah|the|wife|of
charl|pierpont|of|salem|new|jersey|joseph|a|farmer|of|camden|counti
elizaleth|the|wife|of|allen|hedley|of|swedesboro|sarah|isaac|a|farmer
of|clavton|new|jersev|and|charl|who|is|engag|in|the|bakeri|sup|ly
busi|in|philadelphia
henri|pancoast|was|educ|in|what|was|then|known|as|dutchtown
now|poplar|grove|school|in|voolwich|township|gloucest|counti|for
although|born|in|salem|counti|he|came|to|gloucest|at|the|age|of|eleven
year|to|make|his|home|with|benjamin|owen|he|further|pursu|his|edu
cation|in|a|privat|school|in|woodstown|and|then|put|iii|knowledg|to|a
practic|test|on|a|farm|throughout|his|busi|career|he|has|carri|on
agricultur|pursuit|and|his|properti|is|one|of|the|best|develop|fami|in
southern|new|jersey
on|the|loth|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|mr|pancoast|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|martha|a|daughter|of|david|warrington|of|burlington|counti|new
jersey|and|they|have|two|children|b|owen|and|ethelda|pancoast|who
are|still|at|their|parent|home|mr|pancoast|is|a|member|of|the|swede
boro|grang|and|has|serv|on|the|school|board|yet|has|never|been|an|offic
seeker|content|to|devot|his|energi|to|busi|interest
captain|charl|p|lord
captain|charl|phinea|lord|the|mayor|of|vineland|new|jersey|was
born|in|the|town|of|north|berwick|main|octob|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|his|earliest
american|ancestor|was|nathan|lord|who|settleil|in|south|berwick|that
state|in|one thousand, six hundred and thirty-two|thus|it|happen|that|the|famili|has|for|more|than|two|and|a
half|centuri|been|associ|with|the|local|histori|and|tradit|of|the|old
town|humphrey|lord|the|grandfath|of|charl|p|lord|live|at|old
field|south|berwick|and|it|seem|a|singular|fact|that|the|generat|of
this|famil|remain|for|so|long|a|period|in|the|same|region|of|the|countri
coxgressfox|district|of|xrw|jersey|four hundred and fifty-one
here|also|jeremiah|lord|the|father|of|vineland|s|mayor|was|bom|tie
was|a|general|merchant|in|north|berwick|up|to|the|time|of|his|death|which
occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|though|an|ardent|whig|and|a|stanch|republican|after
the|format|of|the|latter|parti|he|was|never|an|aspir|for|ani|offic
in|his|town|or|counti
jeremiah|lord|marri|miss|mavi|ann|varney|of|rochest|new
hampshir|the|daughter|of|phinea|arney|the|repres|of|a|promi
nent|new|england|famili|mrs|lord|who|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|has|wit
ness|mani|chang|in|her|long|life|still|surviv|her|husband|charl
phinea|was|the|eldestd|orn|of|her|nine|children|the|eight|brother|and
sister|were|respect|albert|j|of|charlestown|massachusett|henri
v|who|die|sarah|j|who|live|at|the|old|home|sophia|who|die|of
smallpox|contract|dure|the|war|liy|come|in|contact|with|some
rebel|clothino|sent|into|boston|presum|with|the|object|of|spread
the|horribl|diseas|an|infant|who|die|without|a|name|mari|ann|who
die|jeremiah|e|and|john|r|both|resid|of|north|berwick|the
parent|were|both|in|church|fellowship|the|mother|be|a|congreg
alist|while|the|father|was|a|universalist|jeremiah|lord|was|a|cousin|of
miss|sarah|orn|jewett|the|popular|writer|whose|stori|of|new|england
life|have|made|the|old|town|of|south|berwick|and|the|surround|countri
so|full|of|interest|to|her|reader
charl|p|lord|was|educ|in|the|grammar|school|of|north|berwick
and|at|lowel|massachusett|direct|after|his|graduat|at|the|north
berwick|high|school|he|becam|a|clerk|in|a|store|where|he|remain|until
eighteen|year|of|age|go|then|to|lowel|he|serv|an|apprenticeship
of|three|toilsom|year|in|acquir|profici|in|the|machinist|s|trade
this|call|he|follow|until|the|break|out|of|the|civil|war|when|he
enlist|in|a|compani|of|the|massachusett|volunt|infantri|known|as|the
lowel|mechan|phalanx|he|had|join|the|phalanx|which|was|a|state
militia|organ|in|his|youth|and|had|serv|his|full|term|receiv
honor|discharg|from|duti|part|of|the|time|while|thus|engag|he
serv|as|a|sergeant|and|compani|clerk|at|the|time|of|presid|lincoln|s
inaugur|when|portent|war|cloud|hung|over|the|polit|heaven
sergeant|lord|rejoin|his|compani|and|wise|too|for|the|mechan
phalanx|was|destin|to|take|a|promin|part|in|the|nation|struggl|soon
to|follow|forese|the|need|of|the|situat|charl|p|lord|made|a
motion|that|veri|even|to|tender|the|servic|of|the|phalanx|to|the
govern|as|the|result|of|this|action|a|meet|of|the|offic|of|the
sixth|regiment|was|held|januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|an|offer|of|the|regiment
made|to|the|command|in|chief|of|the|state|this|resolut|was|carri
four hundred and fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
to|boston|by|general|bntler|who|was|at|that|time|a|member|of|the|imassa
chusett|state|senat|the|legislatur|of|massachusett|now|tender|tlie
servic|of|the|state|troop|to|the|govern|and|activ|life|began|for|tlie
men|who|were|soon|to|be|soldier|in|good|earnest|although|even|befor
lincoln|s|inaugur|the|compani|had|been|drill|senat|wilson|of
massachusett|was|in|washington|when|the|first|call|for|troop|was|made
on|the|15th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|about|four|hour|previous|to|the|issu|of|the
proclam|presid|lincoln|had|request|mr|wilson|to|have|four|regi
ment|of|massachusett|militia|sent|to|waslijngton|on|duti|the|sixth
was|now|order|to|muster|on|boston|common|preparatori|to|marshal
their|rank|for|a|march|to|the|nation|capit|the|men|of|the|phalanx
had|veri|soon|after|an|actual|experi|of|aarfar|for|they|had|to|fight
their|way|through|baltimor|in|the|memor|secess|riot|of|april|ig
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|the|sixth|was|muster|with|the|unit|state|servic|and|was
quarter|in|the|senat|chamber|for|about|ten|day|after|which|they|were
order|from|washington|to|the|relay|hous
after|do|duti|in|this|vicin|for|about|three|month|sergeant|lord
return|to|massachusett|and|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|enlist|in|companj|f|the
eighth|main|as|first|sergeant|he|went|to|washington|and|annapoli
and|was|a|particip|in|the|battl|of|port|royal|jacksonvill|florida|the
sieg|of|charleston|and|the|captur|of|pulaski|it|was|while|at|port|royal
with|sherman|that|he|was|promot|to|the|second|and|first|lieuten|the
last|oiific|carri|with|it|the|act|capac|of|a|captainci|as|his|paper
read|first|lieuten|command|compani|while|particip|in|en
gagement|mention|abov|captain|lord|was|also|do|guard|and|pro
vost|duti|until|he|join|the|armi|of|the|potomac|under|general|grant
his|health|began|to|fail|under|the|strain|of|armi|life|and|after|be|detail
with|forti|men|to|cut|a|way|through|the|malari|southern|swamp|he|be
came|physic|disabl|and|was|discharg|from|activ|servic|the
three|week|work|in|the|swampi|lowland|was|accomplish|at|a|great|cost
onli|six|men|out|of|the|forti|who|had|made|the|parti|surviv
on|the|22d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|captain|lord|came|to|vineland|where
he|purchas|a|farm|but|he|was|too|shatter|in|health|to|bear|the|strain|of
such|exert|as|a|success|farmer|must|endur|and|was|compel|to
give|it|up|for|a|number|of|year|he|was|the|head|clerk|in|the|groceri|of
brown|lorin|but|even|that|occup|prove|too|much|for|his|enfeebl
constitut|and|he|resign|the|posit|find|himself|in|a|measur|re
cuper|after|a|complet|rest|he|enter|the|arena|of|public|life|and|in
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|was|elect|the|mayor|of|vineland|he|fill|the|offic|seven|oneyear
term|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|was|reelect|for|a|term|of|three|year|dure|his|ad
congressio|ll|district|of|xeu
lersev|forty-five
ninistr|as|mayor|the|town|of|vineland|has|been|voyoua|jvme
smewalk|which|would|be|credit|to|ani|ati
tast|and|judgment|on|the|part|of|the|executn|forc|in|ihi|laptam|loi
v|a|o|elect|a|justic|of|the|peac|and|he|doe|a|great|deal|of|busmess|n
h|our|he|isalso|by|govern|appoint|the|commission|o|deed
a|a|notari|public|in|polit|captain|lord|has|been|a|stanch|repubhan
nee|the|foundat|of|that|parti|serv|on|committe|and|uvay|vo
the|republican|ticket|he|was|the|first|post|command|of|lyon|post|nck
ten|grand|rmv|of|the|republ|and|one|of|the|charter|memb|o|the
rganz|ion|the|vear|follow|his|conunand|he|was|the|othcer|of|the
daf|tnd|he|was|sub|sequentlv|chaplam|of|the|post|for|eghteen|year|he
now|a|past|grand|master|of|hobart|lodg|no|x3|independ|order|of
odd|fellow|and|an|activ|member|of|vineland|lodg|no|sixty-nine|f|v|v|m
captain|lord|marri|miss|martha|l|field|a|nativ|o|lowel|massa
chusett|mrs|lord|die|octob|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|leavng|v
ahst|in|faith|captain|lord|is|connect|by|membership|tl|tl|l|tana
church|in|inelanl|both|as|a|citizen|and|soldier|he|has|desenelh|uon
htappreci|and|recognit|of|servic|which|his|state|and|countri|have
accord|him
john|w|duboi
john|duboi|is|proprietor|of|the|lead|liveri|stabl|of|swedeslxra|and
was|born|near|penn|grove|new|jersey|on|the|loth|of|novemb|one hundred and eighty-six|hi
parent|be|josiah|and|abigail|straughen|duboi|his|father|d|dm
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|at|the|age|of|eightyfour|year|and|the|mother|pass|y
at|the|age|of|seventi|year|the|patern|grandfath|samuel|d|bo|s|as
one|of|the|earlv|settler|of|penn|grove|township|salem|counti|john|es
lev|duboi|was|the|seventh|in|order|of|birth|in|a|famili|o|eiglt|childien
name|william|who|is|now|live|retir|in|harrisonvill|new|jersey
marv|e|the|wife|of|john|bank|of|paulsboro|this|state|josiah|a|merchant
f|camden|new|jersey|jame|who|is|live|on|the|old|homestead|farm
emilv|the|wife|of|joseph|k|shultz|an|oil|dealer|of|penn|grove|new|jersey
samuel|who|die|at|the|age|of|six|month|john|wesley|and|isaac|who
die|at|the|age|of|six|year|are|i|ol
mr|duboi|of|this|review|obtain|his|educ|m|the|public|school
and|assist|his|father|on|the|home|farm|until|nineteen|year|of|age|when
he|began|the|oper|of|a|threshingmachin|carri|on|busi|m|that
wav|for|five|vear|subsequentlv|he|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|in
salem|and|gloucest|counti|for|fifteen|year|after|which|he|spent|two
four hundred and fifty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
year|in|swedesboro|as|the|proprietor|of|a|liveri|stal|le|he|was|then|for
three|ear|engag|in|the|butcher|busi|and|for|a|similar|time|con
duct|a|stealii|thresher|on|the|25th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|took|possess
of|the|liveri|stabl|in|swedesboro|which|he|now|own|and|has|here|con
duct|a|good|busi
on|the|1st|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|mr|duboi|marri|liss|elizabeth|a
daughter|of|samuel|justic|of|pedricktown|new|jersey|and|they|now|have
three|children|morri|and|wilmer|the|son|follow|farm|while|mari
ann|the|onli|daughter|die|at|the|age|of|six|month|the|mother|pass
away|februari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|and|mr|duboi|was|again|marri|januari|twelve
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|his|second|union|be|with|miss|rebecca|yourison|a|daughter|of
john|yourison|of|swedesboro|and|they|have|two|children|alter|and
percey|v|mr|duboi|is|a|member|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit|work
men|of|swedesboro|and|is|a|republican|in|his|polit|afliat|ijut
though|he|cast|his|ballot|for|the|men|and|measur|of|the|part|and|is|earnest
in|the|advocaci|of|it|principl|he|has|never|sought|offici|mefer|de
sire|rather|to|give|his|energi|to|his|busi
coleman|f|leam|jr
honoretl|and|respect|l|v|all|there|is|no|man|in|cape|may|counti|who
occupi|a|more|enviabl|posit|in|financi|circl|than|j|coleman|leani
ing|of|south|denni|not|alon|on|account|of|the|brilliant|success|he|has
achiev|but|also|on|account|of|the|honor|straightforward|busi|pol
ici|he|has|ever|follow|he|possess|untir|energi|is|quick|of|percep
tion|form|his|plan|readili|and|is|determin|in|their|execut|and|his
close|applic|to|busi|and|excel|manag|have|brought|to|him
the|degre|of|prosper|wdiich|is|today|his|and|which|now|enabl|him|to
live|a|retir|life|it|is|true|that|he|becam|interest|in|a|busi|alreadi
establish|but|in|control|and|enlarg|such|an|enterpris|mani|a|man
of|even|consider|resolut|purpos|courag|and|industr|would|have
fail|and|he|has|demonstr|the|truth|of|the|say|that|success|is|not|a
matter|of|genius|but|the|outcom|of|a|clear|judgment|and|experi
mr|leam|is|a|nativ|of|south|denni|and|a|son|of|richard|s|and
amelia|ludlum|leam|his|greatgrandfath|person|leam|was
a|son|of|aaron|and|mari|leam|and|after|attain|his|major|he|mar
rie|charlott|eldredg|a|daughter|of|aaron|eldredg|they|becam|the
parent|of|seven|children|aaron|furman|mari|person|jeremiah|jame
ranev|anrl|charlott|jercniiah|leamin|the|grandfath|of|our|subject
yxl|truyyn|yi|y|dxtayi
zcp
y
congressioa|district|of|xejf|jersey|four hundred and fifty-five
was|born|may|twenty-six|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|and|die|april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|of|heart|diseas|brought|on
by|over|exert|in|fight|a|fire|on|his|plantat|he|was|then|in|the|prime
of|life|and|in|the|midst|of|a|success|busi|career|he|possess|great
busi|capac|manag|his|interest|most|abli|was|a|man|of|sterl|in
tegriti|and|enjoy|the|confid|of|the|peopl|to|a|high|degre|he|was
frequent|sought|to|act|as|administr|and|executor|in|the|settl|of
estat|he|was|marri|octob|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|to|abigail|falkenburg|who|was
born|februari|sixteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|the|onli|child|of|joseph|falkenburg|who|was|born
ajiril|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-nine|and|came|to|cape|may|counti|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|he|was|then|a|poor
boy|but|at|the|time|of|his|death|which|occur|april|thirty|184c|when|he
was|seventyseven|year|of|age|he|was|the|wealthiest|man|in|the|counti
jeremiah|and|abigail|leam|becam|the|parent|of|nine|children
joseph|f|who|was|born|septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifteen|and|die|octob|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|was
a|graduat|of|princeton|colleg|studi|law|and|afterward|practic|in|new
york|citi|he|was|marri|juli|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|to|bell|thompson|and|their|chil
dren|were|joseph|who|die|at|the|age|of|five|year|and|isabella|wife|of
professor|forman|professor|of|music|in|cornel|univers|coleman|f
born|june|six|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|practic|medicin|in|earli|life|in|xew|ork|citi|and|now
resid|in|cape|may|court|hous|abigail|born|novemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|is|the
wife|of|robert|k|matlock|who|practic|law|in|woodburi|new|jersey
and|their|children|were|elizabeth|mari|leam|a|lawyer|nelli|roliert
a|civil|engin|and|charlott|ellen|born|april|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|is|the|deceas
wife|of|mr|dietrick|charlott|born|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|marri|j|w|mc
knight|who|is|now|live|retir|in|bordentown|new|jersey|and|to|them
has|been|born|a|son|john|l|now|deceas|richard|s|the|father|of|our
subject|was|the|next|of|the|famili|jeremiah|born|januari|twenty|one hundred and eighty-three|one|was
graduat|in|princeton|colleg|and|is|a|promin|lawyer|of|chicago|he
marri|miss|harriet|scovill|and|their|children|are|joseph|anna|and|ellen
mari|born|decemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|susan|f|born|juli|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six
becam|the|wife|of|redman|abbott|a|drygood|merchant|of|philadelphia
and|their|children|are|ellen|dr|william|l|a|naturalist|and|gertrud
richard|s|leam|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|juli|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six
in|the|old|homestead|in|south|denni|this|is|an|old|brick|resid|which
was|erect|in|one thousand, eight hundred and five|by|joseph|falkenburg|and|is|now|occupi|by|coleman
leam|jr|of|this|review|it|has|been|remodel|in|the|meantim|init|the
rear|part|which|was|erect|by|richard|s|leam|is|still|cover|by|the
origin|whitecedar|shingl|which|he|put|upon|it|they|were|dip|in|oil
which|account|for|their|remark|present|not|onli|is|coleman
leam|the|owner|of|the|old|homestead|but|he|also|has|in|his|possess
a|set|of|six|ase|which|were|import|b|daniel|smith|one|of|the|earliest
four hundred and fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
china|merchant|of|philadelphia|and|which|were|lirought|to|this|countri|by
the|father|of|commodor|decatur
in|the|common|school|richard|s|learn|acquir|his|preliminari
educ|which|was|supplement|by|studi|in|an|academi|at|woodburi
through|one|term|at|the|age|of|sixteen|howev|he|put|asid|his|text
one|ook|to|engag|in|farm|on|his|own|account|and|throughout|his|entir|life
he|was|identifi|with|the|agricultur|interest|of|cape|may|counti|he
also|becam|an|extens|dealer|in|cedar|lumber|purchas|land|from
which|he|has|cut|the|timber|and|then|in|his|own|saw|and|planingmil|tran
form|it|into|finish|lumber|he|own|larg|tract|of|swamp|land|on
jdenni|creek|and|tuckaho|river|and|did|a|veri|larg|and|profit|busi
ness|later|he|becam|engag|in|shipbuild|on|denni|creek|and|was
one|of|the|lead|repres|of|that|industri|in|this|part|of|the|counti
he|built|a|schooner|at|dorchest|new|jersey|and|also|built|there|the|bark
entin|which|was|lost|with|all|it|crew|on|it|first|trip|when|carri|a|cargo
of|grain|from|philadelphia|to|lisbon|mr|learn|also|built|mani|other
vessel|includ|the|susan|f|abbott|amelia|h|leam|ella|mathew
c|b|wood|j|k|man|william|l|elkin|the|schooner|frank|leam
ing|the|provid|the|william|e|lee|salli|young|william|l|abbott
john|b|adam|richard|s|leam|gertrud|abbott|isaac|h|tilyier
lizzi|babcock|thoma|f|pollard|dougla|gregori|and|john|m|moor
in|all|of|these|he|retain|a|onefourth|or|threeeighth|interest|mani|of
the|first|vessel|which|he|construct|are|still|in|use|which|indic|the
superior|of|the|workmanship|and|of|the|materi|use|in|their|build
mr|leam|also|dealt|extens|in|cordwood|and|had|over|one|thousand
cord|on|hand|at|the|time|of|his|death|his|farm|properti|in|cape|may
counti|aggreg|four|hundr|acr|of|land|and|return|to|him|a|good
incom|he|was|a|man|of|great|industri|of|determin|purpos|and|of
sound|judgment|and|carri|foiward|to|success|complet|whatev|he
undertook|charit|and|benevol|he|gave|freeli|of|his|mean|to|various
organ|and|was|veri|generous|to|the|poor|and|needi|but|most|he
believ|in|that|practic|chariti|which|furnish|employ|to|those|who
need|it|and|thus|enabl|a|man|to|help|himself|and|retain|his|selfrespect|a
stanch|republican|he|was|promin|in|the|council|of|his|parti|and|was
veri|earnest|in|his|advocaci|of|it|principl|for|eight|year|he|serv|as
a|member|of|the|board|of|freehold|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|was|elect|a|member
of|the|general|assembl|serv|dure|the|session|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|187j|and|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three
he|receiv|larg|major|poll|an|especi|larg|ote|at|the|elect
of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|a|fact|which|indic|his|person|popular|and|the|confid
repos|in|him|by|his|fellow|townsmen|elect|to|the|senat|he|was|a
coxgressioxl|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and fifty-seven
recogn|leader|of|the|republican|forc|in|the|upper|hous|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six
he|was|made|a|deleg|to|the|nation|convent|which|nomin|ruther
ford|b|hay|for|the|presid|dure|the|civil|war|he|was|appoint
by|the|board|of|freehold|as|paymast|to|pay|bounti|to|the|soldier|who
had|gone|to|the|front
although|his|busi|interest|were|veri|extens|and|his|otscial|duti
vari|and|respons|mr|learn|yet|found|time|to|devot|to|the|holier
duti|of|life|which|concern|man|s|relat|to|his|fellow|man|and|to|his
maker|he|held|membership|in|the|memori|baptist|church|of|south
denni|was|the|presid|of|the|board|of|truste|and|treasur|of|the
church|and|larg|through|his|effort|the|church|organ|was|con
tinu|he|organ|the|sundayschool|serv|as|it|superintend|for
mani|year|and|was|instrument|in|bring|mani|young|peopl|into|the
church|a|number|of|whom|are|now|devot|their|live|to|christian|work
as|repres|of|the|ministri|not|onli|by|precept|but|by|exampl|did
he|tell|his|fellow|men|of|the|principl|of|christian|for|his|life|was|ever
upright|and|honor|his|manner|kind|and|his|deal|just|he|was|mar
rie|decemb|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|to|amelia|ludlum|a|daughter|of|jeremiah|and
emma|ludlum|and|three|children|were|born|to|them|emma|l|who|was
born|deceml|er|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|and|die|decemb|thirty-one|of|the|same|year|coleman
f|and|frank|who|was|born|march|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|is|identifi|with|the|farm
interest|of|middl|township|cape|may|counti|and|was|marri|februari
nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|to|anna|edward|a|daughter|of|lewi|and|abbi|edward|the
father|of|these|children|die|may|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|and|on|the|8th|of|novemb|of
the|same|year|the|inoth|was|call|to|her|final|rest
coleman|f|leam|jr|whose|name|introduc|this|review|pursu
his|educ|in|the|public|school|and|also|attend|board|school|in
vineland|and|in|cape|may|court|hous|at|a|compar|earli|age
howev|he|put|asid|his|textbook|as|his|father|need|his|servic|in|the
manag|and|control|of|his|extens|busi|interest|the|relat
between|father|and|son|in|their|industri|and|commerci|interest|continu
until|the|death|of|the|fonner|the|enterpris|and|progress|spirit|of|the
younger|man|form|an|excel|complement|to|the|experi|and|ma
ture|judgment|of|the|elder|our|subject|had|charg|of|the|work|of|secur
the|materi|for|shipbuild|and|he|work|upon|the|greater|number|of
the|vessel|mention|abov|they|abandon|their|busi|in|that|line|of
industri|labor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|when|the|father|retir|to|privat|life|for|the|sail
boat|had|been|succeed|by|barg|for|the|carri|trade|mr|leam|is
also|live|retir|save|for|the|demand|made|upon|his|time|and|attent|by
his|invest|the|capit|which|he|acquir|in|former|year|had|been|use
four hundred and fifty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
in|the|purchas|of|real|estat|and|person|properti|which|ire|to|him|a
handsom|incom|he|is|also|interest|in|a|number|of|boat
on|the|6th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|learn|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
huldah|cress|a|daughter|of|lewi|cress|who|was|a|farmer|of|cape|may
counti|and|they|now|have|two|children|richard|s|who|was|born|febru
ari|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|and|is|now|a|student|in|the|lawrencevill|preparatori|school
and|lewi|c|who|was|born|novemb|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|is|at|home|the|famil
attend|the|baptist|church|of|which|mr|learn|is|a|lead|member|he
is|serv|as|it|treasur|and|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|truste|and|his
liber|contribut|and|effect|labor|have|result|great|to|the|benefit
of|the|organ|his|polit|support|is|given|the|republican|parti
but|he|has|never|one|een|an|aspir|for|public|ofific|prefer|to|devot|his
time|to|the|manag|of|his|busi|interest|the|career|of|mr|learn
ing|has|ever|been|such|as|to|warrant|the|trust|and|confid|of|the|busi
world|for|he|has|ever|conduct|all|transact|on|the|strictest|principl
of|integr|and|honor|his|devot|to|the|public|good|is|unquest|and
aris|from|a|sincer|interest|in|the|welfar|of|his|fellow|men|help
may|well|be|term|a|keynot|of|his|charact|anrl|in|all|circl|of|societi|it
has|won|him|admir|and|regard
hanc|helm
hanc|helm|was|born|in|bridgeport|new|jersey|may|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|and|is
a|son|of|jame|e|helm|wdio|resid|near|repaupo|he|was|educ|in
the|public|school|of|logan|township|in|gibbstown|penn|grove|and|in
wyom|seminari|of|kingston|pennsylvania|and|then|engag|in|teach
ing|in|the|repaupo|school|where|he|continu|as|assist|for|four|year
and|for|eight|month|held|the|posit|of|princip|of|the|gibbstown|school
on|the|expir|of|that|period|howev|he|began|farm|which|he|has
sinc|follow|for|eight|year|he|was|engag|in|the|cultiv|of|a|farm
near|swedesboro|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|has|occupi|his|present|farm|of|one|hun
dred|and|sixteen|acr|which|properti|belong|to|his|father|he|is|an
enterpris|agriculturist|and|his|well|till|field|yield|to|him|a|golden|trib
ute|in|return|for|the|care|and|labor|he|bestow|upon|them
on|the|13th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|mr|helm|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|emili|thompson|daughter|of|uriah|thompson|who|resid|in|logan
township|she|die|march|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|leav|two|children|georg|horton
and|gertrud|t|ir|helm|is|a|member|of|the|bridgeport|methodist
episcop|church|and|his|life|is|in|harmoni|with|his|profess|he|is|a
coxgression|district|of|xelf|jersey|four hundred and fifty-nine
valu|repres|of|sever|civic|societi|is|past|grand|of|the|ind
pendent|order|of|odd|fellow|past|master|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit
workmen|of|bridgeport|and|is|a|member|of|the|swedesboro|grang|he
exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of|the|men|and|measur|of|the
democrat|parti|and|for|twelv|year|has|l|een|a|member|of|the|township
committe|do|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|growth|and|insur|the|suc
cess|of|that|organ|in|the|activ|afifair|of|life|he|is|meet|with|fair
success|and|among|his|characterist|is|number|that|of|industr|which
never|fail|to|bring|it|sure|reward
charl|p|batten
the|ancestr|histori|of|this|gentleman|is|one|of|long|connect|with
the|agricultur|interest|of|new|jersey|the|famili|was|found|in|america
by|sir|franci|batten|who|came|from|england|in|the|earli|part|of|the|eight
eenth|centurv|and|took|up|a|larg|tract|of|land|in|woolwich|township|com
prise|the|farm|now|own|by|the|subject|of|this|review|he|has|in|his
possess|an|oldfashion|cowbel|on|which|is|the|name|f|batten|and
which|is|thought|to|have|belong|to|sir|franci|batten|who|was|the|great
greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|his|son|thoma|batten|marri|jane
ann|scott|and|their|son|joseph|batten|was|the|father|of|john|batten
the|last|name|be|the|father|of|our|subject|he|marri|susan|zern
and|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|follow|the|occup|of|farm|his|death
occur|march|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|and|his|wife|pass|away|may|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|they
were|the|parent|of|two|children|charl|paul|and|sarah|a|the|latter
the|wife|of|joshua|hain|who|is|now|live|retir|in|philadelphia|and|who
has|two|children|john|and|claud
mr|batten|of|this|review|spent|his|boyhood|day|on|the|farm|and|the
public|school|afford|him|the|educ|privileg|he|enjoy|the|year
follow|his|father|s|death|he|purchas|the|old|homestead|farm|which|has
been|in|the|possess|of|the|famili|for|almost|two|centuri|sinc|that
time|he|has|cultiv|his|land|with|excel|success|and|has|replac|near
all|of|the|old|build|with|attract|and|substanti|new|structur|he
erect|his|present|resid|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|in|mani|way|has|ad|to|the
beauti|and|util|of|his|farm
mr|batten|is|a|man|of|broad|general|inform|and|throughout|his
life|has|been|erv|fond|of|read|and|has|also|ad|to|his|store|of|knowledg
bv|travel|in|mexico|and|the|unit|state|gain|therebi|inform
which|can|never|be|glean|from|book|and|which|add|a|most|attract
46o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
element|to|his|convers|in|polit|he|is|a|democrat|and|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|sere|as|a|member|of|the|township|committe|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|was
reelect|to|the|posit|and|is|now|chairman|of|the|committe|eleven|his
life|he|has|resid|in|gloucest|counti|and|his|mani|excel|of|char
acter|have|gain|him|the|warm|regard|of|those|who|have|known|him|from
boyhood|and|those|whom|he|has|met|in|later|vear
torn|p|sheppard
john|plummer|sheppard|is|a|worthi|repres|of|one|of|the|oldest
and|most|honor|famili|in|salem|counti|the|old|homestead|on|which
he|was|bom|has|been|in|the|possess|of|the|sheppard|famili|for|more|than
one|hundr|and|fifti|year|and|now|belong|to|john|p|and|his|brother
sylvanus|who|could|not|be|persuad|for|ani|consider|to|part|with|it
long|befor|the|revolutionari|war|there|came|from|ireland|john|fitz
patrick|who|purchas|fifteen|hundr|acr|of|land|and|establish|his
home|in|lower|alloway|creek|township|his|son|samuel|continu|to|dwell
on|the|place|where|he|rear|six|son|and|a|daughter|this|daughter|mar
rie|sylvanus|sheppard|who|came|to|the|homestead|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-one|the|year|of|his
marriag|where|he|live|until|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four
his|connect|with|the|earli|baptist|church|at|camden|give|us|occa
sion|for|the|relat|of|an|interest|item|in|general|histori|here|the
third|church|build|erect|in|camden|was|that|of|the|baptist|in|eighteen|eighteen
in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|and|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|a|few|baptist|famili|had|settl|in|camden|from|the
cohansey|and|salem|church|and|unit|with|the|first|baptist|church|of
philadelphia|everi|sunday|in|order|to|attend|worship|they|cross|the
river|in|rowboat|dure|one|winter|howev|the|ice|on|the|river|was|so
strong|for|thirteen|week|that|these|faith|worship|were|enabl|to|walk
across|the|river|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|seven|member|of|the|first|baptist|church|in|phila
delphia|were|dismiss|by|letter|to|the|first|baptist|church|in|camden
these|were|sylvanus|sheppard|mention|in|the|preced|paragraph
phebe|his|wife|richard|johnson|ann|johnson|isaac|smith|hannah|lud
1am|and|eleanor|sheppard|most|of|these|name|have|sinc|been|celebr
in|salem|counti|histori|this|baptist|church|has|been|the|parent|of|all|the
other|baptist|church|in|camden|the|first|truste|includ|sylvanus
sheppard|reuben|ludlam|and|isaac|smith|w|hile|mr|sheppard|and|richard
johnson|were|deacon
in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|enoch|sheppard|was|ijorn|a|son|of|sylvanus|and|he|pass
his|entir|life|on|the|homestead|he|was|the|patern|grandfath|of|the
2r
congression|district|of|neif|jersey|four hundred and sixty-one
ubiect|of|our|sketch|and|was|a|man|of|unusu|abil|in|music|and|not
onl|luoht|it|to|other|but|also|for|mani|year|was|the|leader|ot|the|choar
h|snton|baptist|church|he|marri|miss|mari|hancock|and|youre
children|were|born|to|them|john|h|phoeb|barker|and|ehzabeth|ddks
tie|birth|of|john|h|sheppard|took|place|on|the|old|homestead|m|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and
there|he|spent|his|entir|life|in|agricultur|pursuit|he|was|a|man|of|i|am
portanc|the|communitv|and|was|entrust|with|mani|local|othc|poht
tan|he|was|identifi|with|the|democrat|parti|but|not|beng|a|polm
cian|he|refus|to|accept|ani|offic|except|such|as|were|of|local|interest|he
as|for|manv|vear|an|activ|member|of|the|canton|baptist|church|where
he|was|love|and|honor|by|the|membership|whom|he|was|call|to|lead
in|mani|respons|duti|his|high|use|and|happi|career|was|brought
o|a|close|on|the|tsth|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|when|his|church|and|comnuimti
realiz|that|they|had|lost|a|valuabl|friend|and|member|his|wife|hose
maiden|name|was|eleanor|plummer|is|still|live|and|is|approach|the
eightieth|anniversari|of|her|birth|she|is|the|mother|of|three|children|s|one
vami|who|is|a|merchant|in|quinton|john|p|and|ehzabeth|the|wife|of
rev|tame|dare|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|who|die|m|one hundred and eighty-eight
john|plummer|sheppard|was|born|decemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|receiv|a
publicschool|educ|in|the|littl|schoolhous|at|j
home|which|was|complet|in|the|school|in|salem|when|he|was|abou
eighteen|vear|of|age|he|began|to|earn|his|own|live|at|hrst|by|worku|g
wfth|his|father|at|home|then|go|into|the|wood|to|cut|timber|and|then
enter|a|store|as|clerk|but|he|could|not|be|satisfi|with|the|prospect
of|ain|this|held|out|to|him|and|have|practic|rigid|economi|he|amass
a|sum|of|monev|suffici|to|enabl|him|to|open|a|countrv|store|on|ns|own
account|at|canton|here|he|endeavor|to|meet|all|the|want|of|the|com
munitv|and|made|a|specialti|of|fertil|agricultur|implement|coal|and
the|usual|stock|of|a|countri|warehous|in|addit|he|start|a|canning
factori|which|at|first|employ|fifti|hand|and|increas|until|one|bundl
and|fftv|person|were|work|within|it|one|f
t|ihe|end|of|fourteen|vear|mr|sheppard|conclud|that|the|lak|of
railroad|facil|and|contact|with|the|outsid|world|prevent|inm|from
have|the|access|he|crave|at|his|old|home|and|he|imov|to|salem
where|he|start|the|mill|now|known|far|and|near|as|the|salem|kmttmg
mill|this|has|becom|under|his|manag|one|of|the|most|thrive
mdustri|in|southern|new|jersey|mr|sheppard|built|a|substanti|factori
fiftvseven|feet|wide|ninetyseven|feet|long|and|three|stone|m|height|in
which|at|the|numer|loom|from|one|hundr|and|ten|to|one|hundr
and|fortviiv|peopl|are|to|be|seen|daili|work|cheer|at|their|special
four hundred and sixty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
taik|the|travel|salesmen|employ|have|place|the|good|manufac
ture|by|air|sheppard|in|everi|part|of|the|unit|state|and|the|ijiisi
has|so|increas|that|sometim|it|has|been|necessari|to|run|the|factori|night
and|day|to|fill|the|requir|order|the|industri|is|of|untold|benefit|to
salem|as|it|afford|employ|to|mani|of|the|better|class|of|employ|who
would|otherwis|find|it|difficult|to|obtain|suitabl|employ|mr|shep
pard|is|appreci|by|his|fellow|citizen|and|they|rejoic|in|his|success|en
courag|him|to|still|further|extend|the|rang|of|his|industri
mr|sheppard|is|a|member|of|the|broadway|imethodist|episcop|church
but|his|sympathi|go|out|to|all|the|religi|organ|of|his|town|on
februari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|sheppard|marri|iiss|rebecca|the|daughter|of
enoch|b|garrison|of|canton|who|has|been|a|good|helpmeet|to|her|hus
band|in|his|various|busi|enterpris|raymond|garrison|sheppard
their|onli|son|is|now|associ|with|his|father|in|busi|and|by|his
integr|and|energi|give|promis|of|achi|success|in|his|career|as|a
busi|man
ben7amix|allex|tyler
on|no|other|articl|of|consumpt|doe|the|health|of|the|public|depend
to|such|an|extent|as|on|pure|milk|as|it|enter|larg|into|all|our|food|and|the
children|of|mani|famili|find|in|it|their|princip|susten|it|is|not
alway|an|easi|matter|to|procur|this|articl|in|it|best|stte|as|man|famili
can|testifi|and|the|man|who|endeavor|to|put|a|firstclass|articl|on|the
market|is|sure|to|find|a|readi|sale|as|doe|the|gentleman|wdios|name|appear
abo|he|realiz|the|need|of|his|patron|and|endeavor|to|meet|them
while|they|appreci|his|effort|by|their|high|prais|and|steadili|increa
ing|patronag|he|is|a|son|of|john|and|beulah|griscom|tyler|and|was
born|in|cumberland|counti|this|state|in|the|township|of|greenwich|octo
ber|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven
benjamin|tyler|the|grandfath|own|two|farm|in|greenwich|town
ship|and|was|a|man|of|consider|mean|he|was|a|whig|and|later|a
republican|and|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|he|was|marri|three
time|his|first|wife|be|the|grandmoth|of|our|subject|her|children
were|hannah|who|first|marri|josiah|harmer|and|then|levi|smith|john
ebenez|a|farmer|of|cumberland|counti|who|marri|sarah|stewart
mari|who|marri|charl|harmer|and|is|now|in|her|ninetieth|year|her
second|husband|was|andrew|thompson|lydia|who|marri|reuben|hill
iard|and|benjamin|who|marri|alic|woolman|the|second|and|third
marriag|were|without|issu|mr|tyler|live|to|be|seventysix|year|of|age
c0xgressi0x4l|district|of|xeiv|jersey|forty-three
john|tyler|was|born|in|cumberland|counti|this|state|march|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eight|and
resid|in|his|nativ|township|all|his|life|die|februari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|ad
vanc|age|of|nineti|year|he|own|two|farm|and|was|known|and|re
spect|bv|everi|one|he|was|an|earnest|christian|and|a|strict|adher|of
the|friend|church|in|polit|he|was|a|whig|and|when|that|parti|was|sub
merg|in|the|republican|parti|he|join|forc|with|that|organ|and
casti|vote|with|them|he|was|marri|twice|his|first|wife|be|the
mother|of|our|subject|they|were|the|parent|of|a|larg|famili|of|children
mani|of|whom|grew|up|and|are|use|honor|citizen|of|their|respect
communiti|thev|were|as|follow|anna|the|wife|of|chamblin|hancock
a|farmer|of|this|counti|john|and|william|both|of|whom|die|in|childhood
benjamin|allen|the|subject|of|this|biographi|rebecca|who|first|marri
william|fogg|and|then|amo|gardner|a|farmer|of|gloucest|counti|mari
who|was|also|twice|marri|her|first|husband|be|william|stoke|and|her
second|one|thoma|hugh|a|resid|of|salem|beulah|marri|clement
acton|of|salem|lydia|is|unmarri|john|marri|twice|first|mari
mulfoid|and|afterward|luci|hain|and|georg|who|marri|martha
ridgeway|the|mother|reach|her|sixtysixth|year|when|her|famili|were
call|on|to|mourn|her|death|in|august|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four
benjamin|allen|tvler|was|rear|on|a|farm|and|his|childhood|and|earli
youth|was|similar|to|that|of|other|boy|of|that|time|he|attend|the|com
mon|school|of|his|nativ|township|and|spent|his|spare|moment|in|work
about|the|farm|have|a|like|for|the|free|and|independ|life|of|a
farmer|he|continu|in|that|work|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|bought|a|farm|of|one|hundr
and|sixti|acr|in|penn|s|neck|where|he|resid|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|when|he|move
to|salem|he|decid|to|combin|the|dairi|busi|with|farm|believ
that|it|would|not|onli|prove|a|sourc|of|consider|direct|incom|but|would
also|be|the|mean|of|build|up|his|farm|as|well|as|it|has|now|come|to|be
an|establish|fact|that|stock|kept|on|a|farm|add|great|to|it|product
power|and|grain|fed|to|them|bring|a|much|better|profit|when|sold|either
as|beef|hog|or|milk|than|when|put|direct|on|the|market|his|ventur
as|a|dairyman|has|been|attend|with|the|most|gratifi|result|as|he|has
made|it|his|aim|to|furnish|onli|the|best|qualiti|of|milk|a|fact|his|custom
have|not|been|slow|to|appreci
march|fourteen|i860|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|millic|bosbi|a
daughter|of|isaac|bosbi|four|children|were|born|to|them|name|han
nah|octob|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|benjamin|juli|two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|who|marri|margaret
ormsbi|of|philadelphia|he|graduat|at|the|medicochirurg|colleg|of
philadelphia|spent|one|year|in|the|medic|hospit|and|anoth|in|the|phila
delphia|hospit|when|he|locat|at|royersford|pennsylvania|where|he|is
four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
a|rer|sisccesstol|pfajkiao|nridi|an|esotend|and|inciatit|practic|beolasl
who|die|at|tibe|age|of|seve|jeair|aod|a|diim|nrlio|die|in|incit|ir
tyler|is|connect|widi|the|build|loan|associ|ot|salem|and|i
oat|of|ber|mios|epac|and|bigtih|esceeni|citizen
wtlliam|a|jaouett
wieiam|a|jaqnett|who|is|engag|in|the|practic|oi|deniosotr|ki|sakm
come|iron|a|kmjg|line|of|ilussrion|ancestor|who|liat|t|ee3i|promiaent|in
connect|with|the|bnsine|and|religion|hiseoiy|of|meriica|for|centmi
jean|pan|jaqnett|belong|to|a|hngnenot|iamilt|that|for|some|tins|re
side|in|switzerland|and|came|to|ameiica|in|the|middl|of|the|serenteendi
centuri|he|was|vicedirector|of|ddawar|in|sixteen thousand, five hundred and fifty-six|and|was|the|owner|o
long|hook|i|r|e|eriy|on|the|clnistiana|opptit|the|o|m|town|of|wsbning
too|embracibg|a|tract|of|land|at|the|foot|of|larket|street|extend|east
and|west|on|the|29th|ol|xoresnb|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-five|jean|pad|jaqnett|becam|rise
founder|and|the|brst|rider|of|xew|castl|take|the|oath|of|o|ce|on|the|8th
of|decemb|of|that|year|he|donat|die|gionnd|npon|wfaidi|was|erect
the|st|geoig|s|episcop|chnrch|at|penn|s|xedc|there|he|fie|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-four
leav|two|son|jean|panl|and|peter|the|latter|bei|father|of|lajkn|peter
jaqnett
ilajor|peter|jaqnett|the|grandson|oi|jean|panl|jaqnett|was|a|soldier
in|the|rerohiticmiari|war|he|was|btwn|ai|long|hook|delawar|opposit
whnsington|and|earli|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|join|haet|s|regimoit|take|pan|in|the
battl|fx|princeton|and|camden|at|the|latter|piac|dekalb|the|note
bararian|general|was|sereresv|woond|ar|he|arm|of|peter
jaqnett|jcrer|seven|rr|fjb|m|peter|wi|r|seven hundred and seventy-six|in|lpper
penn|s|xeck|one|forty-nine|his|chiiiirr|isiel|samnjel
let|te|tr
a|five|mb|of|five|bom|ar|disig|lower
pe|_|_|jiip|and|e|j|_|_r|iirm|at|_|_|this|connti
he|die|in|salem|at|the|age|of|eightyfor|year|in|re|igion|aaatief|he
was|deepli|interest|and|was|an|actir|member|of|the|mediodist|chnrch
he|marri|miss|elizabeth|well|who|die|in|her|eiginieeh|year|their
children|were|ds|hanna|anna|mrtinga|si
emmarettia|tot|iiather|rt|onr|snbiect|wa
loin|jtch|and|emzal|r
es|_|tch|at|hi|r|saleti
cotmiti|ruoizi|v|v|prcccp|r|uc|angfat|chrisazii|moog|his
coxgressiox|district|of|xejr|jersey|four hundred and sixty-five
fellow|men|as|a|mean|of|livelihood|he|also|fouow|farm|at|penn|s
xeck|where|the|famili|had|settl
dr|joseph|jaquett|the|father|attend|the|school|in|mannington
township|and|later|enter|those|of|salem|he|then|enter|the|offic|of
dr|edwin|chew|of|that|citi|under|whom|he|studi|dentistrv|and|after
ward|locat|at|woodstown|this|state|where|he|has|a|larg|general|practic
that|has|been|establish|for|twentjseien|year|he|is|not|alli|to|ani
particular|parti|be|independ|of|part|principl|and|vote|for|the|best
man|regardless|of|parti|view|he|is|the|presid|of|the|woodsto|n|board
of|educ|and|formerl|took|an|activ|part|in|the|session|of|the|knight
of|pythia|and|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|he|is|a|member|of
the|presbrterian|church|and|one|of|it|most|zealous|worker|have|been
seventeen|year|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|and|lend|valu
abl|aid|in|all|line|of|church|work|he|marri|miss|nna|ldemian
and|rear|three|children|anna|clair|william|a|and|helen|he|is|now
in|his|sixtieth|year|and|his|wife|is|fortjnin
dr|william|a|jaquett|receiv|his|preliminarj|educ|in|the|public
school|of|woodstown|and|later|attend|bacon|academi|and|the|pennsyl
vania|colleg|of|dental|surger|at|which|he|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|then
locat|in|salem|and|is|at|this|time|the|lead|dentist|here|have|built
up|a|lucrat|practic|which|is|steadih|grow|as|he|is|care|and|pain
take|in|his|work|and|has|won|the|reput|of|be|thorough|reliabl
he|is|familiar|in|social|circl|and|has|connect|himself|with|the|lead
social|organ|of|the|citi|be|a|member|of|the|countri|qub|the
fen|rick|qub|knight|of|pythia|and|the|young|ilen|s|christian|ssocia
tion|he|is|a|regaiat|attend|of|the|presbrterian|church|of|which|he|is|a
member|and|is|the|librarian|of|the|sunda|rschool
josiah|duller
joh|miller|a|hnsthng|wideawak|young|busi|man|of|salem|is|a
nativ|of|lancast|counti|pennsylvania|bom|august|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|a|son|of
wyatt|wistarand|mari|l|gnsen|miller|he|was|provid|with|a|good
libera|educ|first|attend|the|public|school|of|safe|harbor|in|his
nativ|counti|later|the|public|school|of|mannington|township|this|countv
and|finish|with|a|cours|in|the|renssela|pohtechn|colleg|at|troy
xe|york|leav|colleg|he|turn|his|attent|to|the|pursuit|of|agri
cultur|for|a|few|year|in|mannington|township|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|when|he|en
gage|in|the|manufactur|of|enamel|brick|at|oak|montgomeri|countv
four hundred and sixty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
pennsylvania|and|later|at|phoenixvill|close|out|this|lousi|he|move
to|salem|where|he|conduct|a|groceri|two|or|three|year|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|to
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|when|he|dispos|of|that|interest|and|open|an|offic|where|he|has
sinc|carri|on|busi|in|fire|insur|real|estat|survey|etc
mr|miller|was|marri|octob|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|to|miss|mariana|e|daughter
of|clark|h|thompson|a|retir|farmer|of|salem|they|have|three|bright
children|alic|t|wyatt|a|and|esther|g|he|is|a|republican|and|for
a|time|act|as|the|town|clerk|of|mannington|for|sever|year|he|is|a
worthi|member|of|forrest|lodg|no|seven|knight|of|pythia|and|the|ancient
order|of|unit|workmen|person|he|is|affabl|and|courteous|ant|a
gentleman|whom|it|is|a|pleasur|to|meet
hugh|c|sharp
success|is|not|a|matter|of|genius|as|claim|by|some|or|an|inher
talent|but|come|as|the|natur|result|of|well|direct|and|continu|effort
it|is|this|qualiti|which|has|made|mr|sharp|ane|of|the|lead|agriculturist
of|logan|township|and|his|prosper|is|certain|well|merit|he|was
born|within|a|half|mile|of|his|present|farm|on|the|5th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty
his|father|jacob|sharp|was|a|nativ|of|cumberland|counti|new|jersey
and|a|son|of|joseph|sharp|have|arriv|at|year|of|matur|he|marri
miss|rosanna|sheet|a|daughter|of|georg|sheet|in|earli|life|he|had
learn|and|follow|the|carpent|s|trade|but|dure|the|latter|part|of|his
busi|career|he|devot|his|energi|to|agricultur|pursuit|his|death
occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|when|he|had|attain|the|veri|advanc|age|of|ninetysix
and|his|wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|at|the|age|of|eightysix|year|in|their
famili|were|the|follow|children|amanda|the|wife|of|joseph|kidd|of
penn|grove|township|both|deceas|john|a|farmer|live|near|mullica
hill|eliza|the|wddow|of|samuel|stanger|of|wilmington|delawar|sarah
the|widow|of|chalkley|madara|of|philadelphia|charl|the|proprietor|of
the|bridgeport|hotel|georg|who|manag|a|farm|near|bridgeport
hugh|c|jame|thompson|who|die|at|the|age|of|twenti|year|fanni
the|wife|of|charl|hendrickson|a|produc|dealer|of|philadelphia|who
make|his|home|in|repaupo|and|henri|a|farmer|of|woolwich|township
to|the|publicschool|system|of|his|nativ|town|hugh|c|sharp|is|in
debt|for|the|earli|educ|privileg|he|receiv|he|afterward|pur
su|his|studi|in|philadelphia|and|through|the|month|of|vacat|assist
his|father|in|the|labor|of|the|home|farm|and|to|him|gave|the|benefit|of|his
servic|until|he|was|twentvthre|vear|of|age|when|he|began|farmin|on
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and sixty-seven
his|own|account|he|cultiv|rent|farm|for|three|year|near|pedrick
town|and|for|ten|year|near|bridgeport|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|liav|acquir|some
capit|purchas|ninetyf|acr|of|land|to|which|he|has|sinc|ad|a
tract|of|sixtyon|acr|so|that|his|farm|now|compris|one|hundr|and
sixtysix|acr|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|erect|thereon|a|heauti|resid|and|in|mani
way|has|improv|the|propert|thus|ad|to|it|valu|and|attract
appear|as|well|as|util|all|the|accessori|and|coneni|of|a
model|farm|are|here|found|and|the|well|till|field|yield|to|him|a|good
return|for|his|care|and|lahor
the|marriag|of|mr|sharp|was|celehr|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|when|aliss
emma|dawson|ijecam|his|wife|she|is|a|daughter|of|joseph|and|hannah
andrew|dawson|of|swedesl|oro|new|jersey|of|which|place|her|parent
were|both|nativ|ir|and|mrs|sharp|had|ten|children|but|six|of|the|num
ber|die|in|childhood|the|other|are|georgianna|the|wife|of|harri
hurff|of|camden|by|whom|she|has|one|son|aaron|hurft|jame|thomp
son|who|occupi|one|of|his|father|s|farm|and|who|marri|josephin|todd
by|whom|he|has|a|daughter|pearl|eva|wife|of|xndrew|wilson|of|phila
delphia|and|joseph|warner|who|assist|his|father|on|the|home|farm
mr|sharp|vote|with|the|republican|parti|and|has|serv|his|township
as|a|member|of|the|board|of|school|truste|he|has|never|been|an|offic
seeker|prefer|to|devot|his|time|and|energi|to|his|busi|interest
he|is|an|energet|busi|man|of|mark|abil|a|progress|citizen|and
just|popular|among|his|wide|circl|of|acquaint
matthia|muhlbaier
matthia|muhlbaier|is|now|live|retir|at|his|pleasant|home|in|swede
boro|new|jersey|but|for|mani|year|was|connect|with|the|agricultur
interest|of|this|state|and|through|his|capabl|manag|and|untir
industri|has|accumul|a|handsom|compet|have|been|regard
as|one|of|the|most|success|repres|of|gloucest|counti|a|nativ
of|germani|he|was|born|at|waldorf|baden|on|the|i6th|of|februarv|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six
and|is|a|son|of|philip|and|elizabeth|roster|muhlbaier|in|their|famili
were|six|children|name|elizabeth|the|deceas|wife|of|jacob|burkl|of
bridgeport|new|jersey|matthia|frederick|who|is|still|live|in|the
fatherland|katherin|the|widow|of|charl|bishop|and|a|resid|of|phila
delphia|eva|the|widow|of|charl|hess|and|a|resid|of|germanv|and
john|who|former|made|his|home|in|philadelphia|but|is|now|live|a|re
tire|life|in|glen|riddl|pennsylvania
four hundred and sixty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
mr|luhlljaier|of|this|remev|pursu|lii|educ|in|the|well|regul
school|of|his|nativ|land|and|be|an|apt|student|acquir|a|good|fund|of
knowledg|to|tit|him|for|the|practic|and|respons|duti|of|life|he
work|on|a|farm|by|the|month|in|germani|until|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|when|he|determin
to|seek|a|home|in|the|unit|state|land|at|new|york|on|the|27th|of
novemb|he|first|secur|employ|near|peclricktown|but|soon|after
ward|went|to|bridgeport|where|he|work|by|the|day|on|raccoon|island
through|the|succeed|six|year|in|i860|he|purchas|a|farm|of|sixti
acr|between|bridgeport|and|swedesboro|and|as|time|pass|ad|to|his
properti|buy|at|one|time|a|tract|of|sixti|acr|at|anoth|one|hundr
acr|and|later|a|place|of|thirtythre|acr|these|four|farm|are|now|occu
pie|by|his|children|l|ut|for|mani|year|he|was|activ|associ|with|the
agricultur|interest|and|was|account|one|of|the|most|practic|and|pro
gressiv|farmer|of|the|communiti|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|and|his|wife|re
move|to|swedesboro|where|they|have|sinc|resid|through|a|period
of|more|than|half|a|centuri|mr|muhlbaier|was|a|verj|hardwork|man
and|his|economi|capabl|manag|and|enterpris|togeth|with|the
assist|of|his|devot|wife|enabl|him|to|accumul|a|handsom|for
tune|so|that|they|are|enabl|to|spend|the|even|of|life|in|quiet|and|retir
ment|surround|by|mani|comfort
mrs|muhlbaier|preced|her|husband|to|this|countri|about|six|month
her|maiden|name|was|christina|schlag|and|she|was|a|daughter|of|peter
schlag|she|also|is|a|nativ|of|waldorf|baden|where|she|becam|slight
acquaint|with|her|inisband|it|was|through|her|brother|a|friend|of|mr
muhlbaier|then|live|in|philadelphia|that|the|acquaint|was|extend
until|stronger|tie|were|fon|on|the|27th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|they
went|from|bridgeport|to|philadelphia|and|were|marri|in|st|peter|s|cath
dral|of|the|latter|citi|five|children|came|to|bless|their|union|elizabeth
now|the|wife|of|joseph|schmidt|a|farmer|of|woolwich|township|carolin
the|wife|of|john|goulegowski|a|farmer|of|logan|township|by|whom|she|has
three|children|elizabeth|the|wife|of|matthew|groppenbech|mari|and
philip|lena|the|wife|of|iartin|shorn|an|agriculturist|of|woolwich|town
ship|l|v|whom|she|has|four|children|joseph|christina|florentin|and
john|philip|who|own|the|old|homestead|and|marri|miss|mari|laux
by|whom|he|has|four|children|matthia|and|sebastian|twin|walter|and
clarenc|and|peter|a|farmer|of|logan|township|who|marri|elizabeth
woelk|of|philadelphia|and|has|a|son|name|edward
mr|muhlbaier|and|his|famili|are|well|devot|member|of|st|joseph|s
cathol|church|of|swedesboro|and|contribut|liber|to|it|support|he|was
one|of|the|earliest|representati|of|that|denomin|who|locat|in|that
coxgression|district|of|nejv|jersey|four hundred and sixty-nine
section|of|gloucest|counti|and|frequent|walk|from|raccoon|island|to
the|home|of|daniel|kenney|south|of|swedesboro|in|order|to|attend|mass
which|was|occasion|celebr|there|by|a|priest|from|salem|when|the
erect|of|the|first|church|in|swedesboro|was|undertaken|he|was|the|largest
contributor|to|the|enterpris|the|amount|which|he|gave|be|five|dollar
at|that|time|be|consid|a|veri|larg|sum|mr|muhlbaier|has|alway
taken|a|deep|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|welfar|of|the|commun
iti|and|has|given|his|polit|support|to|the|democrat|parti|he|came
to|this|countri|a|poor|man|dejjend|upon|each|day|s|toil|for|the|mean
of|livelihood|and|without|even|a|knowledg|of|the|english|languag|by
persist|in|his|work|economi|and|fair|deal|he|has|steadili|advanc
and|his|life|indic|most|clear|the|opportun|which|are|afford|the
ambiti|young|man|in|this|free|republ
samuel|m|parker
for|mani|year|samuel|matlack|parker|who|is|now|deceas|was|con
nectecl|with|the|agricultur|interest|of|gloucest|counti|own|and
cultiat|a|fine|farm|in|woolwich|township|he|was|born|in|haddonfield
xew|jersey|on|the|31st|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|was|a|son|of|jonathan|g|and
mari|ann|matlack|parker|and|his|grandpar|were|william|and|susanna
peacock|parker|whose|marriag|was|celebr|decemb|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|the
former|have|been|born|octob|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-eight|while|the|latter|was|born|june
nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|they|had|twelv|children|namel|isaac|born|septemb|twenty-nine
one thousand, eight hundred and ten|joshua|p|born|februari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|jonathan|rachel|born|juli|four
one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|loui|who|was|born|januari|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|die|novemb|three|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty
samuel|born|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|hannah|born|june|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|eli|who
was|born|octob|three|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|and|die|decemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|amo|liorn|june
sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|charl|e|who|was|born|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|die|juli|eight
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|elizabeth|born|februari|2y|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|cha|kle|l|orn|decemb
twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three
jonathan|g|parker|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|feliruari|two|eighteen|fourteen
and|after|arriv|at|year|of|matur|marri|mari|ann|matlack|whose
birth|occur|august|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|he|die|novemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|his|wife
pass|away|iay|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|their|children|were|susan|p|born|septemb
five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|die|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|samuel|m|albert|born|august|ifi
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|and|die|april|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|carolin|i|who|was|born|sei|tem1|er
seven|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|die|on|the|19th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five
samuel|m|parker|was|for|mani|year|recogn|as|one|of|the|lead
four hundred and seventy
biograph|histori|of|the|first
and|influenti|citizen|of|his|communiti|in|busi|he|was|a|man|of|re
sourc|abil|w|ho|carri|forward|to|success|complet|whatev|he
undertook|for|a|time|he|ran|the|steamboat|falcon|from|swedesboro|to
philadelphia|and|after|six|year|spent|in|that|way|purchas|and|occupi
a|farm|near|swedesboro|he|own|that|properti|until|his|death|and|was
veri|success|in|it|cultiv|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|remov|to|swedesboro|where
he|occupi|a|well|appoint|home|spend|the|last|few|year|of|his|hfe
in|an|honor|retir|from|labor|save|the|manag|of|his|properti
interest
on|the|31st|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|mr|parker|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
sarah|eastlack|a|daughter|of|samuel|eastlack|of|timerereek|gloucest
counti|they|becam|the|parent|of|six|children|but|kati|s|and|harri
both|lie|when|aliout|a|year|old|the|other|are|caddi|j|the|wife|of
wesley|b|gill|albertus|s|who|wed|keziah|fish|and|has|four|chilrlren
marion|g|sarah|f|alberta|s|and|howard|s|s|russel|who|marri
emma|adam|and|has|a|son|harri|r|and|gertrud|s|who|complet
the|famil
mr|parker|was|a|charter|member|of|the|swedesboro|grang|and|in|his
polit|affili|was|a|republican|who|firm|upheld|the|principl|of
the|parti|and|fill|a|number|of|local|public|ofific|with|credit|to|himself
and|satisfact|to|his|constitu|he|pass|away|juli|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|and|in
his|death|the|communiti|lost|one|of|it|repres|and|honor|men
he|was|alway|reliabl|in|busi|faith|to|his|duti|of|citizenship|and
to|the|home|and|his|sterl|worth|command|the|respect|of|all|with|whom
he|came|in|contact|the|famili|attend|the|triniti|episcop|church|and
are|high|esteem|in|aoohvich|townshi
isaiah|s|alderman
this|progress|and|substanti|agriciuturist|of|gloucest|counti|was
born|octob|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|i|pittsgrov|township|salem|counti|new|jersey
and|was|rear|there|his|father|john|alderman|was|a|son|of|joim|alder
man|after|the|death|of|the|last|mention|his|widow|move|to|pittsgro
from|their|old|home|at|woodstown|and|her|support|was|great|aid|by|the
will|hand|of|her|son|john|the|father|of|our|suliject|she|pass|the
most|of|the|remaind|of|her|life|there|die|howev|at|woodstown
john|was|a|farmer|by|occup|and|was|esteem|as|an|honor|upright
man|the|man|offic|of|trust|to|which|he|was|chosen|show|the|con
congression|district|of|neic|jersey|four hundred and seventy-one
denc|repos|in|him|while|the|care|and|conscienti|discharg|of|the
duti|thus|impos|evinc|the|general|charact|of|the|man|he|was|a
member|of|the|presbyterian|church|and|was|a|member|of|the|committe|who
inhlt|the|present|church|edific|at|pittsgrov|he|marri|miss|anna|strat
ton|by|whom|he|had|four|children|name|01ier|who|resid|on|the
pittsgrov|homestead|isaiah|s|whose|name|head|this|sketch|anna|the
wife|of|dr|j|e|jacuett|of|woodstown|and|sarah|who|becam|the
wife|of|william|seller|the|proprietor|of|the|iron|work|near|wilmington
delawar|mr|alderman|surviv|his|wife|some|year|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|at
tlie|close|of|a|long|and|use|life
i|s|alderman|receiv|a|commonschool|educ|and|was|for|a|short
time|a|pupil|at|the|state|school|at|trenton|he|spent|four|year|with|his
brother|oliv|at|woodstown|in|the|store|which|had|lieen|open|by|their
father|some|time|previous|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|move|to|his|present|locat
where|he|own|a|fine|farm|and|has|deot|his|attent|to|agricultur|mr
and|mrs|alderman|hae|consider|land|interest|in|this|vicin|and|in
salem|counti|they|both|take|an|activ|interest|in|all|question|that|afifect
the|farmer|and|he|is|a|memlier|of|the|grang|the|are|closel|identifi
with|the|presbyterian|church
as|his|companion|throughout|life|mr|alderman|chose|miss|mari|wilson
to|whom|he|was|join|in|matrimoni|march|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|the|name|of
their|children|are|elizabeth|john|and|anna|robert|wilson|the|father|of
mrs|alderman|was|born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|in|counti|antriqi|ireland|and|came|to
america|when|a|young|man|with|no|capit|but|a|stout|heart|and|will
hand|he|was|industri|and|econom|and|soon|had|a|neat|sum|save
up|which|was|deposit|in|the|bank|for|safe|keep|the|bank|fail|and
he|with|hundr|of|other|were|in|a|day|s|time|defraud|of|money|which
repres|year|of|toil|and|privat|still|hope|for|the|futur|he|onc
more|bent|his|energi|to|his|task|and|again|save|his|earn|until|he|had
a|good|sum|but|this|time|he|profit|by|his|previous|lesson|and|purchas
larg|tract|of|timber|land|and|engag|in|make|charcoal|he|oper
a|sawmil|at|fri|mill|and|engag|in|farm|and|lumber|soon|acciuir
ing|a|larg|properti|and|becom|one|of|the|foremost|men|of|his|day
he|was|a|strict|churchman|an|elder|of|the|presbyterian|church|and|a|truste
for|mani|year|his|wife|whose|maiden|name|was|elizabeth|mccaughan
was|a|nativ|of|the|same|place|as|was|he|and|her|demis|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two
he|survi|her|nine|year|when|he|too|laid|down|the|burden|of|life|and
enter|into|that|peac|sleep|which|end|at|the|final|resurrect|of
their|six|children|the|follow|surviv|lari|mrs|i|s|alderman|john
who|resid|in|new|york|and|tenni|ir|simon|ij|wilson|of|philadel
four hundred and seventy-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
phia|a|son|robert|f|left|this|state|about|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|and|was|heard|from|after
ward|when|he|was|in|california
s|staxger|iszard
among|the|practition|of|the|new|jersey|bar|whose|abil|entitl
them|to|a|posit|of|distinct|in|the|profess|is|s|stanger|iszard|who
resid|in|woodburi|but|practic|there|and|in|camden|he|is|one|of|the
lead|realest|and|corpor|lawyer|of|this|section|of|the|state|and
as|advanc|at|the|bar|depend|sole|upon|individu|merit|his|posit
stand|in|evid|of|his|comprehens|knowledg|of|the|principl|of|juri
prudenc|and|his|accuraci|in|appli|them|to|the|point|in|litig
mr|iszard|was|born|in|swedesboro|januari|seven|i860|began|his|educa
tion|in|the|common|school|and|took|a|colleg|preparatori|cours|in|pen
nington|seminar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|matricul|in|princeton|colleg|and|on
the|complet|of|a|thorough|fouryear|cours|was|graduat|with|honor
in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|receiv|the|degre|of|m|a|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|ith|a|broad
general|inform|and|classic|knowledg|to|serv|as|a|foundat|on
which|to|rear|the|superstructur|of|profession|learn|he|enter|upon
the|studi|of|law|and|was|graduat|in|the|law|depart|of|the|univers
of|pennsylvania|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|with|the|degre|of|ll|b|he|studi
in|the|ofific|of|c|stuart|patterson|esq|then|dean|of|the|law|depart
of|the|univers|he|was|admit|to|the|bar|of|the|keyston|state|in|that
year|and|licens|to|practic|in|the|suprem|court|of|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two
he|was|admit|to|the|bar|of|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|but|had|enter|upon
his|profession|career|in|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|took|up|his|resid
in|woodburi|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|open|an|oiific|in|cam
den|where|he|has|secur|a|larg|clientag|he|is|well|vers|in|the|law
in|all|it|various|branch|but|make|a|specialti|of|corpor|and|real
estat|law|and|is|legal|counsel|for|the|glassboro|bank|the|est|jersey
real|estat|compani|and|other|corpor|he|has|conduct|sever
import|bank|case|and|realest|suit|and|has|won|some|notabl|tri
umph|in|the|court|where|his|sound|argument|and|logic|deduct
alway|carri|weight|and|seldom|fail|to|convinc
in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|mr|iszard|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|mari|e
daughter|of|william|s|zane|a|repres|of|a|veri|old|famili|of|new
jersey|they|have|one|child|miriam|in|his|social|relat|mr|iszard
is|a|mason|and|is|past|master|of|glassboro|lodg|no|eighty-five|f|a|m|he
was|at|one|time|quit|activ|interest|in|sundayschool|work|in|po|i
four|ah
coxgressiox|district|of|xeii|jersey|four hundred and seventy-three
tic|he|is|a|zealous|republican|and|keep|well|inform|on|the|issu|and
question|of|the|day|both|polit|and|otherwis|a|publicspirit|citizen
he|manifest|a|commend|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the|general
welfar|and|withhold|his|support|from|no|movement|for|the|public|good
william|j|helm
william|j|helm|is|number|among|the|merchant|of|bridgeport|new
jersey|where|he|is|conduct|a|wellappoint|establish|stock|with
a|larg|line|of|general|mercantil|good|he|was|born|on|a|farm|in|logan
township|gloucest|counti|near|repaupo|novemb|six|one hundred and eighty-five|one|and|is|a
son|of|jame|ellet|and|hannah|justic|helm|of|repaupo
the|famili|is|of|swedish|lineag|and|was|found|in|america|by|han
helm|who|came|from|sweden|to|the|new|world|prior|to|the|revolut
ari|war|and|was|the|owner|of|a|rich|tract|of|land|in|new|jersey|jame|ellet
helm|is|one|of|the|most|prosper|and|influenti|farmer|of|gloucest
counti|he|was|born|in|this|local|august|i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|and|has|resid|at|his
present|place|of|resid|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|through|continu|industri|and
economi|he|has|accumul|a|handsom|fortun|and|now|own|sever|fine
farm|his|life|demonstr|the|possibl|which|lie|befor|those|of|de
termin|purpos|keen|discrimin|and|untir|enterpris|for|it|is|these
qualiti|which|have|brought|to|him|mark|prosper|in|the|busi|atyair
of|life|he|is|a|stanch|silver|democrat|and|has|had|a|lifelong|avers|to
bank|with|which|he|refus|to|transact|ani|busi|even|to|the|extent|of
make|deposit|in|such|institut
on|the|13th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|he|was|marri|to|miss|hannah|justic|a
daughter|of|william|and|mari|perkin|justic|five|children|were|born|to
mr|and|mrs|helm|elizabeth|the|wife|of|henri|shoemak|who|follow
farm|near|repaupo|hanc|who|also|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|in
that|local|william|justic|emma|and|john|who|occupi|one|of|his
father|s|farm|the|parent|are|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church
and|all|who|know|them|respect|them|for|their|manv|excel|of|charac
ter
william|j|helm|pursu|his|preliminari|educ|in|the|public|school
of|logan|township|and|subsequ|matricul|in|wyom|seminari
at|kingston|pennsylvania|vhile|under|the|parent|roof|he|was|taught|the
various|branch|of|farm|work|and|on|put|asid|his|textbook|he|re
turn|home|to|assist|his|father|in|the|labor|of|the|farm|his|energi|be
thus|occupi|for|nine|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|came|to|bridgeport|where|he|has
four hundred and seventy-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
sinc|engag|in|general|merchandis|lii|commerci|effort|be|attend
with|excel|success|he|carri|a|larg|line|of|good|such|as|is|demand
bv|a|general|trade|and|his|reason|price|thorough|reliabl|and|earnest
desir|to|pleas|have|gain|to|him|a|veri|liber|patronag
on|the|jjth|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|mr|helm|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|emili|gill|a|daughter|of|stineman|gill|of|logan|township|they
are|both|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|of|bridgeport|take
an|activ|part|in|it|work|and|are|veri|activ|in|advanc|it|interest|along
the|various|line|of|christian|activ|and|effort|mr|helm|was|former
the|sundayschool|superintend|and|is|now|serv|as|a|steward|of|the
church|in|polit|he|give|his|support|to|the|prohibit|parti|for|he|is
in|deep|sympathi|with|the|temper|movement|social|he|is|connect
with|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|and|the|american|order|of
unit|workmen|and|enjoy|the|high|regard|of|his|brethren|in|those|frater
niti
matthia|m|che
matthia|m|chew|of|cecil|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|is|one|of
the|most|high|esteem|citizen|of|this|part|of|the|state|and|has|gain
more|than|a|local|reput|as|a|success|grower|of|cranberri|he|has
won|his|success|by|patient|industri|and|the|applic|of|sound|common
sens|to|his|busi|interest|he|was|one|orn|feljruari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|at|marsh
lake|near|malaga|this|counti|and|is|a|son|of|thoma|e|and|elizabeth
miller|chew|his|grandfath|robert|chew|was|of|english|birth|and|was
one|of|four|brother|who|came|from|that|countri|and|locat|in|america
one|in|philadelphia|one|in|maryland|and|two|in|this|state
thoma|e|chew|was|l|orn|at|marsh|lake|and|resid|there|until|he|had
attain|his|major|when|he|move|to|clayton|and|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|he|made
the|first|brick|manufactur|in|that|town|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|he|move|to|cecil|where
he|own|two|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|land|fifteen|of|which|he|plant|to
cranberri|as|it|was|admir|adapt|to|the|rais|of|that|fruit|he|was
a|man|of|exemplari|charact|incap|of|a|mean|action|and|possess|of
a|remark|bright|intellect|his|death|was|the|result|of|an|accid|in|the
mill|from|which|he|die|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|his|wife|who|surviv|him|and|is|in
her|seventysixth|year|was|in|her|maidenhood|miss|elizabeth|miller|eleven
children|were|born|to|them|six|of|whom|are|still|live|name|william|h
of|hurfifvill|matthia|m|our|subject|susannah|h|widow|of|mascal|bate
robert|c|who|oper|a|sawmil|near|cecil|salli|m|of|girard|colleg
philadelphia|and|thoma|who|resid|near|cecil
tffatthta|tf|chew
coxgression|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and seventy-five
matthia|jm|chew|attend|the|pubuc|school|in|lii|loyhood|init|ad
great|to|his|knowledg|by|a|privat|cours|of|studi|at|night|in|this|man
ner|he|master|the|intricaci|of|the|legal|profess|and|also|familiar
himself|with|survey|and|conveyanc|befor|he|was|twentyon|he|en
list|at|glassboro|in|the|twentyfourth|new|jersey|regiment|and|was|in|the
battl|of|fredericksburg|and|chancellorsvill|the|spring|follow|the
death|of|his|father|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he|purchas|the|home|farm|and|has|sinc|ad
to|that|properti|until|now|he|has|one|thousand|acr|of|land|he|has|one
hundr|acr|in|cranlierri|he|has|given|to|the|subject|of|cranberri|cul
ture|the|closest|attent|and|studi|and|has|had|his|care|reward|by|bounti
ful|crop|of|the|finest|berri|he|market|five|thousand|crate|of|berri|an
nualli|and|no|man|know|l|etter|than|he|the|danger|and|difficulti|which
menac|the|grow|crop|the|gather|in|of|the|crop|has|alway|been|a
sourc|of|troubl|and|annoy|to|the|grower|and|to|do|away|with|this
difficulti|he|has|place|on|the|market|a|cranberri|picker|an|invent|of|his
own|fertil|brain|which|meet|the|requir|fulli|and|will|do|the|work|of
six|or|eight|ordinari|picker|he|has|a|fine|farm|and|everywher|doe|it
show|the|evid|of|his|care|and|ingenu|he|had|some|wild|chestnut
tree|on|his|farm|and|as|they|were|too|beauti|to|be|destroy|he|decid
to|tri|to|make|them|profit|and|graft|them|with|the|japan|chestnut
the|experi|prove|success|and|he|now|has|some|of|the|finest|chest
nut|to|be|obtain
mr|chew|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|to|a|ladi|of|the|same|name|and|a|distant
connect|she|was|miss|mari|etta|a|daughter|of|thoma|a|chew
of|the|seven|children|born|to|them|four|attain|matur
abbi|who|first|marri|horac|wise|of|williamstown|and|afterward|frank
clark|of|pini|hollow|and|is|now|deceas|edward|d|who|resid|at
cecil|samuel|a|resid|of|williamstown|and|lizzi|m|who|marri
charl|t|allen|of|pleasantvill|this|state
mr|chew|is|independ|in|his|polit|affili|but|has|been|veri
activ|in|local|polit|work|he|was|a|director|in|the|board|of|freehold
when|the|present|courthous|was|built|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|was|chair
man|of|the|ijoard|for|four|year|he|was|a|candid|for|the|nomin|for
state|senat|in|the|republican|parti|at|one|time|under|the|crawford|system
but|did|not|receiv|the|nomin|although|he|receiv|a|veri|flatter
vote|he|has|been|a|commission|of|deed|for|twenti|year|justic|of|the
peac|fifteen|year|and|notari|public|for|the|past|six|year|he|has|often
been|a|deleg|to|state|congression|and|other|convent|and|has|ever
been|a|forc|advoc|of|the|principl|he|held|he|is|the|postmast|of
cecil|postoffic|which|was|establish|through|his|suggest|and|influenc
forty-six|biograph|histori|op|the|first
he|is|affabl|energet|and|pleas|in|his|address|and|is|well|like|by|everi
one|he|has|been|connect|with|the|odd|fellow|organ|and|also
with|the|knight|of|pythia|and|the|junior|order|of|american|mechan
and|is|an|import|factor|in|the|meet|of|the|grand|armi|of|the|re
pnblic|he|has|been|post|command|of|howard|fisher|post|no|io6|g
a|r|of|williamstown|of|which|he|was|the|princip|organ|and|a|charter
member
samuel|p|shth
saninel|patrick|smith|one|of|the|lead|farmer|of|elsinboro|townhi
salem|counti|xew|jersey|was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck|township|jul
twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|is|a|son|of|peter|smith|and|elizabeth|nee|ellett|and|a|grand
son|of|washington|smith|and|mari|nee|patrick|in|his|father|s|famili
there|were|six|children|jame|w|born|septemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|and|die
august|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|jessi|p|born|februari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two|and|die|juli|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three
samuel|patrick|ephraim|born|novemb|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|and|die|octob|fifteen
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|thoma|jefferson|m|d|of|bridgeton|new|jersey|born|april|twenty-one
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|and|peter|elmer|born|septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|a|farmer|of|mannington
township
mr|smith|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|salem|counti|and|in
the|friend|school|he|has|alway|follow|farm|except|dure|the|two
year|eighteen thousand, seven hundred and one|when|he|was|in|the|hardwar|busi|in|bridgeton|mr
smith|was|marri|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|to|priscilla|a|daughter|of|samuel
kelti|of|ouinton|township|by|whom|he|had|two|children|ehzalieth|who
die|at|the|age|of|six|month|and|jame|wlm|is|now|ile|nu_|keeiier|of
the|state|prison|at|trenton|he|was|marri|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|to|lydia|sayr
a|daughter|of|david|finlaw|and|elizabeth|nee|fogg|of|lower|lloway
creek|township|the|youngest|of|four|children|by|his|second|marriag
mr|smith|had|five|children|lizzi|ellett|david|finlaw|who|marri
ruth|j|richman|a|daughter|of|william|richman|of|greenwich|and|live
in|lower|alloway|creek|township|fanni|p|phebe|c|and|frank|peter
who|marri|harriet|a|daughter|of|henri|bassett|of|mannington|township
and|who|occupi|his|father|s|farm|in|elsinboro|township
mr|smith|is|a|republican|was|a|truste|of|the|almshous|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|to
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|has|been|a|truste|of|the|school|and|a|member|of|the|township
committe|of|elsinboro|wit|his|famili|he|affili|with|the|societx|of
friend|at|salem
tradit|furnish|the|histor|incid|that|samuel|fogg|the|great
orandfath|of|mrs|smith|was|buri|in|the|friend|cemeteri|in|salem
coxgressfox|district|ou|new|jersey|seventy-seven
on|the|dav|the|town|was|occupi|by|the|british|those|attend|the
funer|we|are|on|horseback|the|widow|ehzaleth|fogg|ride|a|small|black
hors|the|offic|command|that|all|the|hors|be|seiz|but|to|the
credit|of|human|he|said|except|the|widow|s|hors|and|she|rode|unmo
lest|back|to|her|home|in|lower|alloway|creek|township
william|c|cattel
william|c|cattel|the|surveyor|and|civil|engin|of|wenonah|new
jersey|was|born|in|deptford|township|gloucest|counti|this|state|octo
ber|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|a|son|of|joseph|s|cattel|and|anna|d|qark|his|great
orandfath|amo|cattel|was|a|nativ|of|new|jersey|and|was|born|prob
abli|in|gloucest|counti|the|grandfath|georg|cattel|was|born|and
spent|his|entir|life|in|gloucest|counti|where|he|marri|elizabeth|shus
ter|who|was|of|dutch|and|german|ancestri|and|their|children|were|wilham
s|hiram|b|deceas|d|copper|sarah|l|who|marri|john|d|shute
both|deceas|and|joseph|s|his|father|joseph|s|cattel|was|born|m
deptford|township|where|he|was|a|tiller|of|the|soil|and|where|he|spent|his
entir|life|he|held|various|township|offic|was|a|consist|member|of
the|imethodist|episcop|church|in|which|he|held|the|offic|of|steward|and
was|a|member|of|i|o|o|f|k|of|g|e|patron|of|husbanlri|and|hepta
soph
on|the|matern|side|the|clark|famili|is|of|english|ancestri|the|great
grandfath|benjamin|clark|was|one|of|the|earliest|settler|in|deptford
wwnship|becam|a|prosper|and|progress|farmer|and|live|to|the
advanc|age|of|eighty-six|year|among|his|children|were|william|w|born
januaiv|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|still|surviv|and|abram|p|who|die|l|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was
three|time|marri|and|his|children|were|josiah|charl|and|mari|wdl
iam|w|clark|mr|cattel|s|matern|grandfath|was|born|in|deptford
township|where|he|has|alway|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|he|rejir
sent|his|countv|in|the|legislatur|dure|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|and|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|fill|various
township|offic|bv|his|marriag|to|mari|w|a|daughter|of|jame|and
priscilla|dilk|both|nativ|of|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|were|born
anna|d|the|mother|of|mr|cattel|benjamin|c|who|marri|adelin|a
daughter|of|joseph|and|sarah|norri|both|deceas|harriet|c|who|mar
liedand|j|hurff|a|son|of|thoma|and|hannah|hurff|emma|alari|who
marri|dr|paul|s|heritag|and|both|are|now|deceas|and|fanni|c
who|marri|howard|c|hendrickson
william|c|cattel|acquir|his|educ|in|a|privat|school|taught|by
four hundred and seventy-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
professor|henri|r|russel|resid|on|his|father|s|farm|until|he|at
tain|his|major|he|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|engag|in|his|present|busi
in|wenonah|he|serv|as|the|assessor|of|deptford|township|for|ten|year
was|appoint|a|notari|public|in|march|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|commission|of|deed|in
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|he|is|a|past|master|of|mantua|lodg|no|ninety-five|f|a|m|is|a|mem
l|er|of|siloam|chapter|no|nineteen|r|a|m|of|camden|of|woodburi|lodg
no|fifty-four|l|o|o|f|of|woodburi|of|woodburi|castl|no|fifteen|k|of|g|e
venonah|conclav|independ|order|of|heptasoph|wenonah|council
no|one hundred and seventy-three|junior|o|l|a|m|the|patron|of|husbandri|and|the|west|jer
sey|surveyor|associ|in|polit|view|mr|cattel|is|repulilican
and|his|religi|affili|is|with|the|methodist|episcop|church
in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|marri|at|the|resid|of|his|wife|s|parent
in|deptford|township|to|iari|a|turner|a|daughter|of|ellison|k|turner
and|mari|a|leap|they|have|no|children
daid|f|hain
it|is|alway|a|pleasur|to|see|true|merit|suitabl|reward|to|behold|the
prosper|of|those|who|emin|deserv|it|as|doe|the|subject|of|this|re
view|at|an|earli|age|he|learn|one|of|the|great|lesson|of|life|that|there
is|no|royal|road|to|fortun|and|as|he|was|not|abo|work|he|toil|indus
triousli|until|he|won|not|onli|a|comfort|fortun|but|also|the|esteem
and|confid|of|the|peopl|with|whom|he|has|been|associ|for|mani
year|work|the|true|friend|of|mankind|has|develop|his|latent|resourc
and|brought|out|the|strong|selfreli|forc|of|his|charact
his|father|aaron|w|hain|possess|the|same|enterpris|ambiti
spirit|and|the|place|which|he|occupi|in|his|communitv|yorktown|and
vicin|can|not|easili|be|fill|his|use|activ|life|came|to|a|close|on
the|13th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|sixtyninth|year|of|his|age|his|birth|have
occur|novemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-one|he|was|a|son|of|john|hain|jr|who|was
born|april|nine|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-one|and|die|august|two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|his|wife|die|may|six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six
he|was|a|son|of|john|and|margaret|hain|the|fomier|born|may|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-two
was|a|son|of|john|and|rebecca|hain|hen|aaron|hain|was|a|young
man|he|learn|the|trade|of|wheelwright|which|call|he|follow|at
interv|from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|until|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|or|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|he|becam|financi
interest|in|a|brick|and|tile|factor|locat|on|properti|adjoin|his|own
farm|the|one|now|in|possess|of|our|subject|this|plant|had|been|organ
ize|by|sever|englishmen|and|for|a|few|year|it|was|not|a|success
entur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|mr|hain|becam|it|sole|proprietor|and|by|his|excel
a4mi|yai
coxgressiox|district|of|neiv|jersey|four hundred and seventy-nine
lent|manag|and|enterpris|he|soon|had|the|affair|on|a|firm|busmess
basi|and|a|sure|foundat|laid|for|futur|success|until|two|year|prior
to|his|death|he|continu|in|charg|of|the|factori|then|turn|it|over|to
his|son|david|f|a|man|of|true|worth|aaron|hain|sought|to|promot
the|welfar|of|his|neighbor|and|to|do|all|within|his|power|to|advanc
educ|and|progress|along|all|line|he|serv|as|a|school|truste|and
overs|of|road|besid|hold|other|local|otific|of|more|or|less|respon
sibil|and|never|fail|to|acquit|himself|credit|his|six|brother|and
sister|all|surviv|him|joseph|h|the|youngest|of|cape|may|counti|xew
jersey|has|repres|his|district|in|the|state|senat|and|the|other|are
name|respect|mari|ann|margaret|elizabeth|esther|and|edward|c
aaron|and|charlott|r|hain|his|wife|were|nativ|of|salem|counti
the|former|born|in|pile|grove|woodstown|and|the|latter|in|mannington
township|she|was|born|august|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|and|die|septemb|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four
at|the|age|of|fifti|year|she|was|one|of|the|eight|children|of|david|f|and
ann|ftreillend|stanger|who|were|likewis|ijorn|and|rear|in|this|counti
the|father|follow|farm|and|shoemak|serv|as|a|constabl|for|a
time|and|was|a|man|of|influenc|in|his|local|he|was|born|septemb|sixteen
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-two|and|attain|the|advanc|age|of|nineti|year|his|death|occur
august|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|his|wife|mrs|ann|stanger|was|born|march|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and two|and
die|januari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|concern|their|eight|children|we|make|the|fol
low|observ|harriet|becam|the|wife|of|georg|biddl|and|die
on|the|6th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|catherin|also|deceas|becam|the|wife
of|william|patterson|and|after|his|death|wed|david|spark|she|was|the
mother|of|editor|patterson|of|woodstown|serena|is|the|wife|of|william
boltinghous|william|b|wed|jane|duboi|and|is|now|deceas|re
becca|is|the|wife|of|jame|will|anni|is|the|wife|of|paul|will|a|brother|of
her|sister|s|husband|david|p|wed|adelaid|elwel|and|charlott|is|the
wife|of|aaron|hain|the|union|of|aaron|hain|and|wife|was|bless
with|eight|children|name|david|f|william|p|born|may|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|and
die|march|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|omar|b|born|februari|four|i860|and|die|decemlj
eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|addi|e|born|septemb|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|mari|w|born|august|twenty
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|harriet|vl|born|octob|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|kate|e|born|januari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two
and|sadi|t|born|januari|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|two|son|are|deceas|addi|is|the
wife|of|daniel|fri|mari|is|mrs|amo|taunt|harriet|is|mrs|elwood
matlack|and|sadi|marri|dalla|emmel|of|alloway
david|f|hain|was|born|in|woodstown|salem|counti|qctoler|thirty-one
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|when|he|was|onli|fourteen|year|old|he|commenc|work|aljout
the|brick|kiln|and|obtain|a|practic|knowledg|of|the|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy
he|was|admit|to|partnership|with|his|father|the|firm|name|becom|aaron
48o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
w|hain|son|this|i|nsiness|connect|continu|in|forc|until|tlie|death
of|his|father|when|our|suljject|liecam|the|sole|proprietor|of|the|factori|and
plant|locat|in|the|western|part|of|alloway|township|the|kiln|are|near
a|bed|of|veri|tine|clay|practic|inexhaust|and|especi|adapt|for
the|manufactur|of|strong|durabl|tile|and|brick|the|plant|which|is|one
of|the|best|in|the|countri|is|fit|with|modern|machineri|and|applianc
and|it|output|of|brick|has|been|util|in|the|construct|of|numer
substanti|build|in|salem|woodstown|hancock|s|bridg|and|elsewher
it|is|the|onli|draintil|factori|in|south|jersey|and|a|readi|sale|is|found
for|this|articl|in|trenton|easton|and|adjoin|state|as|well|as|in|this
immedi|vicin|the|factori|has|a|capac|of|from|six|to|eight|hundr
thousand|brick|and|two|hundr|thousand|tile|while|the|sawmil|has|turn
out|near|one|hundr|and|fifti|thousand|feet|of|lumber|the|past|year
ir|hain|has|been|associ|with|the|manag|of|this|enterpris|for
about|a|third|of|a|centuri|and|few|men|in|the|busi|are|better|acquaint
with|the|demand|of|the|trade|by|the|exercis|of|industri|and|system|he
is|steadili|increas|his|patronag|and|record|as|a|busi|man|and|the
outlook|is|veri|promis
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|mr|hain|wed|salli|richman|by|whom|he|has|two|chil
dren|lotti|and|mabel|the|former|born|novemb|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|the|latter|born
march|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|mrs|hain|is|a|daughter|of|john|c|and|sarah|a|agin
richman|the|former|of|woodstown|and|the|latter|of|mullica|hill|glouc
ter|counti|the|father|die|in|i860|at|the|age|of|fifti|year|and|his|widow
who|die|in|woodstown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|was|in|her|eightieth|year|their|children
are|hannah|the|wife|of|mose|richman|martha|the|wife|of|isaac|cole
isabella|now|mrs|josiah|holm|margaret|mrs|samuel|goslin|now
deceas|emili|the|wife|of|charl|sickler|salli|and|john|o
frank|leam
frank|leam|a|son|of|richard|s|and|amelia|ludham|leam
was|born|at|south|denni|cape|may|counti|march|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|he|pursu
his|earli|educ|in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|town|and|later|took
the|english|cours|in|the|south|jersey|institut|after|put|asid|his
text|book|he|start|out|in|life|for|himself|and|spent|five|year|in|the|south
visit|mani|place|in|virginia|north|carolina|and|tennesse|on|the
expir|of|that|period|he|return|to|cape|may|counti|but|after|three
year|he|went|to|the|west|spend|the|follow|decad|in|missouri|anrl
arizona|sinc|that|time|he|has|resid|continu|in|cape|liay|counti
coxgression|district|of|xew|jersey|four hundred and eighty-one
nake|his|hone|upon|the|farn|which|he|noy|own|and|p|jj
here|mie|hnndred|and|thirti|acr|constitutnig|one|o|the|lj
rhu|cnltivat|farm|of|the|locahti|upon|the|place|are|substanti
ulld|lr|good|machnerv|wellkept|fenc|and|all|the|accessori|which|go
to|lake|you|a|model|farm|at|the|latter|end|of|this|nineteenth|centuri|he
lo|own|other|land|in|differ|part|of|the|counti|mcludmg|wood|and
meaz|lkls|and|rich|arabl|tract|from|his|properti|he|deriv|a|good
incom|and|is|account|one|of|the|substanti|agriculturist|of|the|com
npebruari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|mr|learn|marri|miss|anna|m|edward|a
daughter|of|captain|lewi|edward|of|south|denni|he|was|a|sea|cap
a|ai|one|boatbuild|but|is|now|live|retir|his|wife|bore|the|maiden
n|me|o|abigail|matthew|unto|mr|and|mrs|edward|have|been|boin
fi|children|anna|m|lewi|harri|adolph|and|marcus|in|his|polit
ia|s|mr|leam|is|a|republican|and|keep|well|nform|on|the
sue|o|the|day|but|has|never|been|an|aspir|for|polit|lnor|pi
fem|g|to|devot|his|time|and|energi|to|his|busi|interest|in|which|he
has|iitet|with|credit|and|desir|success
edward|whilen|springer
promin|among|the|lead|merchant|of|ape|may|pomus|tin|geiv
tleman|who|is|successfullv|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|he|was|bom
at|cape|mav|court|hous|decemb|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|his|parent|bemg|a|ex
ind|w|and|marv|fifield|springer|his|father|was|born|at|dia|creek
cape|may|counti|april|five|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|pursu|his|educ|there|and|m|hi
eal|lifeollow|the|sea|becom|the|captain|of|merchant|vessel|he
e|ide|at|the|place|of|his|nativ|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|wen|he|becam|one|of|the
first|sttlei|at|cape|mav|point|here|he|engag|in|contract|and
b|one|ng|erect|nganv|of|the|resid|which|serv|as|a|nucleus|for|the
ottuc|was|iso|the|first|postmast|a|posit|which|he|had|ormer
leu|at|dia|creek|and|for|a|number|of|year|was|the|collector|and|treasurei
o|tt|bo|igh|in|his|polit|affili|he|was|a|republican|and|in|the
dy|day|ofth|settlement|of|cape|may|point|he|took|an|activ|par|m|one
pubic|affair|polit|and|otherwis|whn|twentyf|year|of|age|h
me|a|member|of|the|baptist|church|and|through|a|lervd
as|a|deacon|and|took|a|veri|activ|interest|in|it|work|and|upbuild|he
a|marri|in|eight hundred and sixty-nine|to|miss|mari|a|fifield|a|daughter|of|joithan|fiff
vho|was|born|at|stratham|new|hampshir|and|was|a|son|of|john|colker
four hundred and eighty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fifield|whose|birth|also|occur|at|tliat|place|and|who|was|a|farmer|in
occup|jonathan|fifield|remain|in|his|nativ|town|until|his|remov
to|cape|iay|court|hous|where|he|spent|his|remain|day|he|was|a
mason|and|contractor|and|was|promin|identifi|with|the|build|in
terest|of|his|adopt|citi|he|exercis|his|right|of|franchis|in|support|of
the|men|and|measur|of|the|republican|parti|his|wife|bore|the|maiden
name|of|alari|hand|and|was|a|daughter|of|recompens|hand|unto|mr
and|mrs|fifield|were|born|five|children|joseph|john|cooper|who|mar
rie|abigail|tilden|by|whom|he|had|two|children|walter|and|everett
and|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|wed|jane|tilton|charl|who|die
in|childhood|rebecca|the|wife|of|charl|g|mill|a|painter|of|cape|may
court|hous|by|whom|she|has|one|son|edward|c|and|mari|a|the
mother|of|our|subject|dr|joseph|fifield|an|uncl|of|our|subject|remov
from|stratham|new|hampshir|to|cape|may|court|hous|about|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty
he|was|a|surgeon|in|the|first|battalion|in|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|jjecam|a
merchant|of|camden|xew|jersey|acquir|consider|wealth|and|die
in|that|citi
unto|air|and|air|alexand|springer|were|born|the|follow|chil
dren|joseph|ship|befor|the|mast|when|onli|thirteen|year|of|age|and
throughout|his|life|has|been|connect|with|the|sea|he|has|made|a|num
ber|of|voyag|around|the|world|and|is|now|in|the|lifesav|station|at
cold|spring|his|resid|be|at|cape|alay|he|marri|ann|eldredg
and|they|have|four|daughter|alari|alic|elsi|and|amelia|charl
ai|went|to|sea|and|no|news|has|been|receiv|from|him|sinc|he|was|seven
teen|year|of|age|so|that|it|is|suppos|he|was|lost|ella|is|the|wife|of
charl|kraler|a|farmer|and|they|have|three|children|charl|jessi|de
ceas|and|alari|amelia|h|is|the|wife|of|franklin|rutherford|an|agri
culturist|and|they|have|a|son|frank|edward|w|marri|fanni
dickerson|john|c|is|engag|in|merchandis|anni|a|is|the|wife|of
perci|holderman|and|their|children|are|alexand|w|percv|and|anna|b
the|father|of|this|famili|die|decemb|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|at|the|age|of|sixtvtwo
year
dure|his|earli|boyhood|edward|w|springer|accompani|his|pa
rent|to|cape|alay|point|and|acquir|his|educ|in|it|public|school
after|leav|the|schoolroom|he|learn|the|carpent|s|trade|with|his
father|becam|an|expert|workman|and|final|engag|in|contract|on|his
own|account|erect|a|number|of|the|best|build|in|the|town|which
today|stand|as|monument|to|his|skill|and|enterpris|he|is|now|engag
in|the|groceri|busi|and|has|one|of|the|best|appoint|store|in|the|place
through|his|honor|deal|and|earnest|desir|to|pleas|he|has|se
coxgressiox|district|of|xeir|jersey|four hundred and eighty-three
cure|a|liber|patronag|and|deri|therefrom|a|good|incom|his|sale
amount|to|fifteen|thousand|dollar|a|year
mr|springer|is|a|man|of|resourc|busi|abil|and|has|not|con
fine|his|effort|to|one|line|he|is|today|one|of|the|lead|realest
dealer|of|the|place|own|ninetenth|of|the|real|estat|here|to|the|valu
of|about|one|hundr|and|seventyf|thousand|dollar|he|put|up|all|the
hotel|and|in|other|way|contribut|to|the|growth|and|upbuild|of|the
point|he|is|the|secretari|of|the|cape|may|branch|of|the|new|jersey
build|loan|associ|is|the|superintend|and|lesse|of|the|cape
may|point|waterwork|and|is|the|superintend|of|the|isaac|john|estat
he|is|also|serv|as|postmast|under|presid|mckinley|s|administra
tion|and|in|polit|is|a|stalwart|republican|unswerv|in|his|support|of
the|principl|of|the|parti
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|mr|springer|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|fanni|daughter
of|georg|dickinson|a|sea|captain|they|occupi|one|of|the|beauti|resi
deuc|at|cape|may|point|and|enjoy|the|hospit|of|the|best|home|in
this|section|of|the|state|social|mr|springer|is|connect|with|the|order
of|heptasoph|his|busi|interest|have|been|attend|with|splendid
success|and|his|judici|invest|capabl|manag|and|persev
anc|in|the|pursuit|of|a|persist|purpos|have|made|him|one|of|the|wealthi
men|of|the|counti|he|is|quick|of|apprehens|and|intric|busi|af
fair|he|comprehend|in|a|moment|such|are|the|element|which|have|con
tribut|to|his|success|and|made|him|one|of|the|lead|factor|in|the|com
mercial|activ|of|southern|new|jersev
charl|cunningham
one|of|the|younger|member|of|the|medic|fratern|in|atlant|counti
is|charl|cunningham|a|physician|of|hammonton|mani|an|older|practi
tioner|might|well|envi|the|success|he|has|attain|for|he|now|occupi|a
place|of|distinct|among|the|follow|of|this|human|profess|he
is|one|of|the|nativ|son|of|new|jersey|his|birth|have|occur|in|ine
land|in|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|his|parent|be|david|and|ehzabeth|tread
way|cunningham|his|father|was|a|shoemak|but|is|now|live|a|retir
life|in|ineland|at|the|age|of|seventyf|year|the|mother|has|been
call|to|the|home|beyond
dr|cunningham|was|rear|in|his|nativ|villag|and|obtain|his|edu
cation|in|the|public|and|high|school|there|he|studi|medicin|under|the
direct|of|dr|v|f|sawyer|of|ine|and|and|in|order|to|pursu|a|col
four hundred and eighty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
letiat|cours|work|at|the|cari|enter|s|trade|and|at|shoemak|tlius
he|obtain|the|capit|necessari|to|meet|his|expens|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|en
tere|the|jefferson|medic|colleg|of|philadelphia|where|he|was|graduat
in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|then|spent|six|month|in|cape|may|counti|after
wiiich|he|came|to|hammonton|where|he|has|sinc|enjoy|an|extens
practic|from|the|begin|he|has|receiv|the|patronag|of|some|of
the|best|peopl|of|the|place|and|his|skill|and|abil|have|won|their|con
fidenc|and|support|he|is|now|serv|as|one|of|tlie|coron|of|the|counti
and|is|a|member|of|the|board|of|health|and|a|board|of|health|inspector
his|polit|support|is|given|to|the|republican|parti
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|dr|cunningham|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|mabel|parker
a|graduat|nurs|of|hahnemann|hospit|in|philadelphia|and|a|daughter
of|j|n|parker|former|an|iron|founder|of|vineland|they|now|have|two
children|lola|and|anni|the|doctor|devot|his|time|and|energi|ex
clusi|to|the|duti|of|his|profess|and|has|gain|high|rank|among
his|brethren|of|the|medic|fratern|he|is|an|earnest|and|thorough
student|and|at|all|time|keep|abreast|with|the|progress|which|character
the|profess
tame|b|potter
on|the|roll|of|those|who|deot|their|energi|to|the|practic|of|law|is
found|the|name|of|jame|boyd|potter|wlio|is|one|of|the|younger|repres
ativ|of|the|bar|yet|has|alreadi|attain|distinct|in|connect|with
his|chosen|call|his|patern|grandfath|jame|boyd|potter|sr|was
born|in|bridgeton|januari|seven|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|and|obtain|his|educ|in|the
public|school|of|his|nativ|town|for|mani|year|he|was|an|activ|factor
in|commerci|circl|conduct|a|general|mercantil|establish|and|in
this|field|of|endeavor|he|secur|a|veri|liber|patronag|win|therebi
a|handsom|compet|he|lso|becam|the|presid|of|a|bank
william|e|potter|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|januari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty
in|bridgeton|new|jersey|and|pursu|his|educ|in|the|west|jersey
academi|and|in|princeton|colleg|where|he|was|graduat|with|the|class
of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|he|was|endow|by|natur|with|strong|mental|and|his|prefer
enc|was|for|profession|life|accord|he|enter|the|harvard|law
school|and|was|graduat|in|that|institut|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|after|which|he|estab
lish|himself|in|the|law|practic|in|bridgeton|be|a|promin|member|of
the|bar|until|novemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|won|mark|distinct|by|the|abl
manner|in|which|he|handl|the|litig|interest|entrust|to|his|care|he
uo
xzyc
coxgressiox|district|of|xejv|jersey|four hundred and eighty-five
was|veri|thorough|and|accur|in|the|prepar|of|his|case|and|fortifi
his|posit|with|logic|almost|incontrovert|his|argument|were|alway
forc|and|seldom|fail|to|gain|the|point|desir|be|base|upon|a|com
prehens|knowledg|of|judici|principl|as|appli|to|the|fact|in|con
troversi|his|reput|has|extend|far|beyond|the|confin|of|the|town
in|which|he|has|made|his|home|in|fact|he|was|known|as|one|of|the|dis
tinguish|repres|of|the|legal|profess|in|the|state|he|serv|as
the|citv|solicitor|of|bridgeton|and|was|the|counti|solicitor|for|two|or|three
term|he|was|also|the|presid|of|the|tlantic|and|cape|may|counti|bar
associ|and|of|the|state|bar|associ|have|serv|as
one|of|the|first|vicepresid|of|the|latter|he|act|as|the
lead|counsel|in|the|defenc|of|charl|k|landi|tri|for|the
murder|of|charl|carruth|and|secur|his|acquitt|he|serv|as
a|unit|state|attorney|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|and|tri|mani|import|civil|as|well|as
crimin|suit|in|fact|was|well|vers|in|all|of|the|depart|in|juri
prudenc|as|a|corpor|lawyer|he|was|particular|distinguish|and
act|as|the|solicitor|for|most|of|the|import|inisi|concern|of|bridg
ton|he|was|the|counsel|for|the|millvill|manufactur|compani|and|for
whital|tatuni|compani|the|proprietor|of|the|largest|glass|factori|in
this|section|of|the|state|in|polit|he|was|a|stalwart|republican|and
serv|as|presidenti|elector|when|general|grant|was|elect|for|his|second
term|he|was|also|a|presidenti|elector|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when|he|cast|his|ballot
for|garfield|he|was|a|deleg|to|mani|state|and|nation|convent|and
his|opinion|alway|carri|weight|in|the|council|of|the|parti|dure|the
civil|war|he|manifest|his|loyalti|to|the|union|becaus|by|enlist|in|the
twelfth|new|jersey|infantri|becom|a|member|of|compani|k|in|jnne
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|the|command|was|assign|to|the|armi|of|the|potomac|and|he|par
ticip|in|all|the|engag|with|his|divis|until|the|close|of|the|war
he|enlist|as|a|privat|but|his|meritori|conduct|on|the|field|of|battl
won|him|promot|to|the|rank|of|major|and|he|serv|as|a|judg|advoc
on|the|staft|of|general|gibbon|and|on|the|staff|of|general|hay|and|for
the|fourth|armv|corp|he|was|wound|in|the|ankl|by|a|mini|ball
in|the|battl|of|the|ilder|and|was|confin|in|the|hospit|for|two
month|his|lovaltv|was|abov|question|and|his|patriot|throughout|his
entir|life|was|one|of|his|mark|characterist|after|the|war|lie|was
known|among|his|friend|as|colonel|potter|and|held|that|rank|while|serv
on|the|staff|of|governor|ward|pleasant|relationship|with|his|armi|com
rade|was|maintain|through|his|connect|with|the|pennsylvania|com
manderv|of|the|loyal|legion|the|societi|of|the|armi|of|the|potomac|the
new|jersev|societi|of|cincinnati|and|jener|mead|post|g|a|r|of
four hundred and eighty-six|biograph|histori|op|the|pirst
philadelphia|he|was|also|a|alu|l|re|3resentati|of|the|mason|order|he
long|to|brearley|lodg|xo|two|of|bridgeton
on|the|27th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|william|potter|was|unit|in|marriag|to|iliss
alic|eddi|and|to|them|were|born|five|children|four|son|and|one|daughter
alfr|eddi|born|march|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|was|educ|in|the|west|jersey|acad
emi|jame|boyd|is|the|next|younger|david|born|decemb|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four
pursu|his|educ|in|the|west|jersey|academi|and|was|graduat|in
princeton|colleg|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|studi|law|with|his|brother
jame|was|admit|to|the|bar|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|practic|for|a|short|time
but|abandon|the|profess|to|becom|an|assist|paymast|in|the|unit
state|xa|y|he|serv|on|the|katahdin|dure|the|spanishamerican|war
and|is|now|station|in|the|philippin|alic|was|born|februari|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven
and|was|educ|at|seven|gabl|and|in|iy|hill|seminari|and|franci
delavan|born|mav|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|was|educ|in|the|est|jersev|academv|and
in|princeton|colleg|and|is|the|youngest|of|the|famili|the|father|die
novemb|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|at|the|age|of|fiftysix|year|he|was|one|who|carv|his
name|deepli|on|the|histori|of|this|state|his|life|record|be|insepar|inter
woven|with|the|militari|and|judici|annal|of|new|jersey|he|was|a|man
of|mark|individu|of|strong|mental|and|of|great|forc|of|charact
and|his|posit|of|leadership|was|accord|him|by|reason|of|his|superior|ex
ecut|abil|he|command|uniform|confid|and|won|the|close|friend
ship|of|all|with|whom|he|was|intim|associ
jame|boyd|potter|whose|name|introduc|this|record|was|born|at
bridgeton|on|the|22d|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|pursu|lii|educ|in|the
west|jersey|academw|in|w|hich|he|w|as|graduat|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he
afterward|enter|the|unit|state|naval|academi|at|annapoli|was
graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|was|honor|discharg|from|the|servic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five
the|veri|thorough|cours|and|excel|mental|as|well|as|manual|and|mili
tari|train|in|that|institut|well|fit|him|to|begin|his|profession
studi|and|on|leav|the|servic|he|took|up|the|studi|of|law|under|the
direct|of|his|father|be|admit|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|in|novemb
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|as|counselor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|in|the|latter|year|he|was|elect|the|citi
solicitor|of|bridgeton|dure|the|spanishamerican|war|he|held|the|lieu
tenanc|in|the|navi|and|was|station|on|the|unit|state|steamship|mon
tauk|he|is|now|the|command|of|the|battalion|of|west|in|the|new|jersey
naval|reserv|and|is|a|member|of|the|pennsylvania|commanderi|naval
order|of|the|unit|state|also|of|the|new|york|commanderi|of|the|naal
and|militari|order|of|the|spanishamerican|w|ar
with|the|surrend|of|the|spanish|fleet|and|the|withdraw|al|of|the|span
ish|soldier|from|the|territor|cede|to|the|unit|state|the|need|for|troo
congression|district|of|new|jersey|four hundred and eighty-seven
was|in|consequ|lessen|and|lieuten|potter|receiv|an|honora1il
discharg|he|then|resum|his|profession|labor|and|is|today|one|of|the
lead|young|member|of|the|bar|of|southern|new|jersey|profession
advanc|depend|entir|upon|individu|merit|the|reput|of
one|s|forefath|availeth|naught|in|such|a|case|and|that|mr|potter|has
won|success|is|due|to|his|strong|mental|forc|his|close|applic|and|his
devot|to|the|interest|of|his|client|guid|by|strong|determin|and
a|laudabl|ambit|he|will|undoubt|win|greater|honor|and|success|in
the|futur|he|is|now|a|director|in|the|west|jersey|mail|transport
compani|his|polit|support|is|given|the|republican|parti|and|he|is|a
member|of|th|presbyterian|church|in|social|circl|he|is|popular|com
mand|the|esteem|and|friendh|regard|of|those|with|whom|he|come|in
contact
joel|g|laxgley
joel|g|langley|of|illow|grove|salem|counti|new|jersey|was|born
on|the|farm|upon|which|he|now|resid|in|lower|pittsgrov|township|on
alarch|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|he|is|a|son|of|richard|and|keturah|garrison|langley
and|a|grandson|of|john|langley|one|of|the|first|settler|of|this|neighbor
hood|who|came|from|langl|s|hollow|england|and|settl|near|millvill
richard|langley|follow|the|occup|of|farmer|and|miller|own|a
mill|at|millvill|and|at|one|time|one|thousand|acr|of|land|he|oper
a|mill|at|willow|grove|for|sever|year|after|be|similar|employ|for
ten|year|at|millvill|he|was|a|local|minist|in|the|methodist|episcop
church|and|although|he|had|but|a|limit|educ|he|was|a|forc|and
convinc|speaker|through|wdios|instrument|great|good|was|accom
plish|he|was|a|friend|of|everybodi|and|ever|bodi|was|his|friend|and
his|death|which|occur|on|this|farm|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|was|wide|and|deeplv
mourn|he|was|a|veri|capabl|man|of|busi|and|gave|abund|of
his|mean|to|religi|and|charit|work|he|was|join|in|marriag|with
miss|victoria|garrison|daughter|of|arthur|garrison|of|cumberland|countv
she|is|now|in|her|eightysecond|year|a|well|preserv|heartv|woman|whose
actix|and|industri|would|put|to|blush|mani|a|woman|of|vounger|vear
seven|children|were|the|fruit|of|this|union|six|of|whom|still|surviv|viz
georg|b|a|miller|at|millvill|hannah|wife|of|david|hitchner|of|pala
tine|this|counti|joel|g|our|subject|sarah|g|wife|of|milford|hayn|of
yome|mari|wife|of|robert|christey|of|millvill|and|jemima|ir
john|d|collin|of|camden|rebecca|who|becam|mrs|harri|of|elmer
die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight
four hundred and eighty-eight|biograph|illstokv|of|the|first
joel|i|lanoiey|attend|pul|lic|school|in|his|boyhood|and|spent|his
spare|time|in|tlie|mill|and|about|farm|work|he|becam|thorough|familiar
w|ith|eer|depart|of|both|line|of|work|and|after|complet|his|school
ing|took|lip|the|occup|of|farmer|which|he|has|sinc|follow|in|a|pro
gressiv|and|uptod|maimer|he|has|been|veri|success|in|his|iiusi
ness|and|own|one|hundr|and|fifti|acr|of|fine|land|eighti|of|which|he
has|under|a|high|state|of|cultiv|and|is|till|under|his|person|super
vision|he|is|regard|as|one|of|the|lead|men|of|salem|counti|and|is
cuick|to|advoc|and|push|to|complet|ani|project|that|tend|to|imild
up|the|comnum|it|was|through|his|influenc|that|the|old|destruct
bridg|were|dis|ilac|by|the|neat|durabl|structur|of|stone|of|which|the
comiti|is|just|proud|he|is|a|democrat|in|polit|and|take|an|activ
interest|in|the|success|of|his|parti|keep|well|post|on|all|current|topic
and|give|excel|reason|for|his|view|he|is|a|member|of|the|methodist
episcop|church|at|willow|iro|in|which|he|has|serv|as|truste|and
steward|is|a|classlead|in|their|meet|and|the|al|le|and|effici|super
intend|of|their|sundayschool
pril|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|led|to|the|altar|miss|salli|creamer|a|daughter|of
jacob|creamer|of|union|grove|who|has|been|to|him|a|faith|and|love
wife|share|his|trial|and|joy|and|encourag|him|by|word|and|exampl
when|his|path|was|beset|by|difficulti|five|children|were|born|to|them
name|albert|f|who|marri|miss|lethea|a|daughter|of|jacob|hitch
ner|and|has|a|son|name|ashton|hitchner|paulin|is|the|next|in|order|of
age|then|mrs|russel|achsah|and|khirg|b|the|foiu|ounger|are|still
live|with|their|parent
mr|langley|is|one|of|the|most|respect|and|ujiright|men|of|the|counti
while|his|familv|are|prominentlv|comiect|with|the|religi|and|social|life
of|their|neighborhood
benjamin|m|ferguson
benjamin|m|ferguson|a|retir|busi|man|of|alloway|salem|coinuy
new|jersey|is|among|the|vener|resid|of|the|counti|and|has|work
with|untir|zeal|for|the|success|that|has|crown|his|eftort|he|was
liorn|in|this|villag|septemb|six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|to|william|and|mari|mauh|fer
guson|and|has|seen|great|advanc|here|dure|his|seventyodd|year
of|life|his|grandfath|joseph|f|was|a|farmer|of|upper|lloway|town
ship|and|rear|sever|children|of|whom|a|illiam|the|father|of|our|sub
ject|was|the|youngest|and|onli|son|william|ferguson|resid|at|mio
way|creek|and|carri|on|extens|farm|oper|until|his|death|at
coxgressioxil|district|of|xew|jersev|four hundred and eighty-nine
the|age|of|seventyeight|year|he|was|a|democrat|and|a|member|of|the
alloway|baptist|church|he|as|twice|marri|his|first|wife|be|the
mother|of|five|children|viz|joseph|deceas|a|farmer|benjamin|m
smith|a|farmer|william|and|mari|ann|the|mother|die|in|her|fiftyfifth
year|and|the|father|at|the|more|advanc|age|of|seventyeight
benjamin|m|ferguson|remain|on|the|farm|with|his|father|until|he
was|grown|and|then|becam|coimect|with|the|firm|of|reev|brother
shipbuild|work|for|them|as|long|as|they|continu|in|busi|his
next|entur|was|in|the|butcher|busi|which|was|commenc|in|a|veri
moder|unpretenti|way|his|first|deliveri|of|meat|be|made|in|a
wheelbarrow|he|butcher|his|own|meat|and|was|care|in|it|select
so|that|his|custom|might|have|onli|the|choicest|articl|his|novel|man
ner|of|deliv|his|good|was|continu|until|a|hors|and|wagon|were
purchas|and|the|wheelbarrow|displac|for|the|more|conveni|and
modern|convey|he|continu|in|this|busi|for|a|period|of|twenti
year|and|met|with|a|remark|degre|of|success|he|then|ran|a|stage
between|greenwich|and|philadelphia|and|chesterton|and|elkton|a|dis
tanc|of|fiftytwo|mile|and|took|the|contract|to|carri|the|mail|for|four
year|his|next|ventur|was|as|the|landlord|of|the|haverford|hotel|at
cape|may|court|hous|which|he|conduct|for|five|year|when|he|came
to|alloway|and|for|eight|year|was|the|popular|and|oblig|landlord|of
the|hotel|in|this|villag|this|hous|when|he|purchas|it|was|known|as
the|american|hous|but|is|now|call|the|horsemen|s|inn|as|a|hotel
keeper|he|was|a|decid|success|and|was|in|veri|great|favor|with|his
guest|and|the|travel|public|there|is|noth|so|conduc|to|man|s
comfort|and|happi|as|well|cook|and|neat|serv|food|a|fact|which
was|well|understood|by|mr|ferguson|and|the|feasibl|of|establish|a
hous|where|everyth|is|clean|neat|and|invit|and|presid|over|by
pleasant|affabl|attend|was|prove|by|the|american|hous|receiv
the|cream|of|the|trade|his|menu|was|all|that|could|be|desir|and|most
invit|to|a|hungri|person|and|the|reput|of|his|hotel|soon|spread
among|the|travel|men|as|a|resort|where|they|would|receiv|courteous
treatment|and|the|best|servic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|dispos|of|this|properti|and
retir|from|activ|life|take|possess|of|his|handsom|resid|in|this
illag|he|has|extens|timber|land|in|this|counti|own|some|five
hundr|acr|in|alloway|township|besid|a|small|farm|which|is|under
cultiv
mr|ferguson|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|to|miss|hannah|donnel|by|whom
he|had|one|child|ida|w|his|second|marriag|was|contract|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|with
mrs|hilari|a|garrison|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|has|been|a|lifelong|demo
four hundred and ninety|biograph|histori|of|the|first
crat|and|was|name|for|the|assembl_|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|ijut|was|defeat|liy|a|small
major|he|has|been|justic|of|the|peac|for|the|past|twent|year|and
still|hold|that|offic|the|duti|of|which|hae|l|een|perform|in|the|same
care|and|conscienti|manner|as|his|own|busi|he|is|one|of|those
publicspirit|citizen|who|do|a|town|good|and|his|influenc|and|enter
prise|have|been|of|inestim|valu|to|allowa
y|m|d|marci|eleven|d
in|studi|the|live|and|charact|of|promin|men|we|are|natur
letl|to|inquir|into|the|secret|of|their|success|and|the|motiv|that|romptecl
their|action|success|is|often|a|matter|of|exjjeri|and|sound|judgment
and|thorough|prepar|for|a|life|work|than|it|is|of|genius|howev|bright
when|we|trace|the|career|of|those|whom|the|world|acknowledg|as|suc
cess|and|of|those|who|stand|highest|in|public|esteem|we|find|that|in|almost
everi|case|they|are|those|who|have|risen|gradual|by|their|own|effort
their|dilig|and|persever|these|qualiti|are|undoubt|possess
in|a|larg|measur|by|the|gentleman|whose|name|introduc|this|sketch|and
ad|to|these|is|a|devot|to|principl|that|may|well|be|term|the|key
note|of|his|charact|it|is|this|which|command|the|confid|and|respect
so|uniform|given|him|and|it|is|this|that|has|secur|him|his|liber|pat
ronag|as|a|memlier|of|the|medic|fraternit|of|southern|new|jersey
dr|irgil|maro|dow|larci|is|now|a|well|known|practition|of|cape
may|and|is|number|among|the|nativ|son|of|cape|may|counti|his|birth
have|occur|at|cold|spring|januari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-three|he|is|a|repres|of
one|of|the|oldest|american|famili|and|trace|his|ancestri|back|to|john
marci|of|whom|the|first|written|notic|appear|in|elliot|s|church|record
in|roxburi|massachusett|as|follow|john|marci|took|the|coven
march|seven|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-five|among|his|descend|mani|have|gain|posit|of
distinct|includ|william|larn|marci|onc|secretari|of|state|and
governor|of|new|jersey|general|randolph|b|marci|and|dr|erastus|e
marci|john|marci|the|origin|american|ancestor|was|the|son|of|the|high
sheriff|of|limerick|ireland|he|was|born|about|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and sixty-two|and|in|april
one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|join|a|coloni|that|took|possess|of|quatosett|now|woodstock
connecticut|he|marri|sarah|hadlock|a|daughter|of|jame|and|sarah
draper|hadlock|of|roxburi|massachusett|she|was|born|decemb
sixteen|one thousand, six hundred and seventy|and|they|spent|the|greater|part|of|their|lie|in|yoodstock|where
john|marci|die|decemb|twenty-three|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-four|at|the|age|of|sixtytwo|his|wife|may
nine|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|at|the|age|of|seentthre|they|were|the|parent|of|eleven
children
forty-nine
coxgressfox|district|of|xew|jersey|four hundred and ninety-one
jame|marcv|their|thirrl|cliill|was|lorn|in|woodstock|connecticut
februari|twenty-six|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-one|and|marri|judith|ainsworth|who|was|born|januari
twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and twenty-two|a|daughter|of|edward|and|joanna|hemmingway|ainsworth|his
death|occur|januari|twenty-nine|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-three
of|his|eight|children|reuben|the|third|was|the|greatgrandfath|of
our|subject|he|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-two|and|marri|rachel|watson|of|bar
ton|rhode|island|as|a|life|work|he|follow|farm|in|ashford|connec
ticut|he|had|four|children|the|third|be|reuben|jr|who|was|born|in
one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-eight|and|marri|hannah|sumner|of|roxburi|massachusett|she|was
born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy|and|die|in|berlin|connecticut|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three|his|life|was|spent
as|a|farmer|in|willington|connecticut|where|his|death|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four
they|had|four|son|and|four|daughter|the|son|were|edward|who
die|in|will|countv|illinoi|samuel|sumner|matthew|who|serv|as|the
judg|of|cape|may|countv|and|william|w|who|was|liorn|in|novemb
i8ov|and|marri|martha|knowlton
samuel|sumner|marci|the|father|of|the|doctor|was|born|in|willington
ashford|countv|connecticut|al|out|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|or|ninety-nine|obtain|his|literari|edu
cation|in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|state|and|then|prepar|for|the
practic|of|medicin|in|the|offic|and|under|the|direct|of|dr|palmer|of
ashford|and|in|yale|colleg|be|graduat|in|the|medic|depart|of
that|institut|about|1s20|throughout|his|busi|career|he|engag
m|the|practic|of|his|chosen|profess|and|won|distinct|as|one|of|it|most
alil|repres|in|southern|new|jersey|from|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|until|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|he
serv|as|a|surgeon|in|the|new|jersey|militia|he|took|up|his|aliod|in
dennisvill|new|jersey|soon|after|his|graduat|afterward|remov|to
cold|spring|cape|may|counti|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|went|to|cape|may|citi|where
he|continu|in|practic|until|his|death|he|held|a|number|of|local|offic
discharg|his|duti|with|mark|prompt|and|fidel|and|his|polit
support|was|given|the|democraci|he|was|a|valu|member|of|the|counti
medic|societi|and|the|state|jiedic|societi|and|alway|kept|abreast|with
the|profess|in|it|advanc|in|various|line|of|medic|research|he
die|at|the|advanc|age|of|eightynin|year|and|his|wife|pass|away|at
the|age|of|sixti
this|worthv|coupl|were|the|parent|of|eight|children|virgil|m|d|is
the|eldest|harriet|matilda|marri|john|k|f|stite|who|in|earli|life|fol
low|farm|but|later|becam|a|sundayschool|missionari|and|travel
throughout|new|jersey|organ|sundayschool|in|behalf|of|the|presbi
terian|church|he|has|made|his|home|in|cape|may|and|camden|and|by|his
marriag|he|had|four|children|samuel|who|die|in|childhood|john|win
held|scott|and|alva|freeman|imartha|laria|coburn|becam|the|second
four hundred and ninety-two
biograph|histori|of|the|first
wife|of|rev|augustus|theodor|dolson|a|presliyterian|minist|of|long
island|new|york|who|afterward|remov|to|cliester|pennsylvania|they
had|three|children|augustus|t|jr|and|samuel|and|elizabeth|who|die
in|childhood|sarah|ickean|the|fourth|of|the|famili|die|in|childhood
hannah|elizabeth|was|the|first|wife|of|rev|augustus|t|dobson|and|had
two|children|william|a|who|was|in|the|employ|of|the|govern|for|a
time|and|is|now|a|ilraftsman|in|the|cramp|shipyard|of|philadelphia|and
matti|the|wife|of|jame|hargan|alexand|the|sixth|child|die|in|earli
boyhood|alexand|2d|a|physician|marri|hannah|ann|mccray|and
thev|have|two|children|john|w|a|member|of|the|medic|fratern|and
mari|a|thriphena|edmund|is|the|widow|of|jame|gass|who|was|a
merchant|and|thev|had|two|son|and|two|daughter|robert|samuel|s
harriet|m|and|lari|jane
dr|marci|whose|name|introduc|this|record|was|educ|in|privat
school|in|cold|spring|and|in|berlin|connecticut|thus|gain|a|good|pre
liminari|educ|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|when|seventeen|year|of|age|he|matricul
in|yale|colleg|and|was|graduat|with|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|he|was|a|mem
ber|of|the|phi|beta|kappa|an|honorari|societi|to|which|onli|al|out|one
third|of|the|class|was|elig|he|receiv|the|degre|of|bachelor|of|art
upon|his|graduat|and|two|year|later|the|degre|of|master|of|art|was
confer|upon|him|he|prepar|for|tlie|medic|profess|within|the
classic|wall|of|his|alma|mater|and|in|the|univers|of|maryland|at|balti
more|and|after|his|graduat|in|the|latter|institut|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|he|locat
in|gloucest|counti|virginia|where|he|engag|in|practic|for|three|year
on|the|expir|of|that|period|he|return|to|cold|spring|to|becom|his
father|s|successor|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine|the|father|remov|to|cape|may|where|they
continu|practic|togeth|until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|when|the|father|retir|dr|mrgil
larci|has|sinc|been|alon|and|for|mani|year|he|has|occupi|a|posit
of|mark|prestig|among|the|repres|of|the|medic|fratern|in
this|part|of|the|state|he|is|also|engag|in|the|drug|busi|in|connect
with|his|practic|and|find|it|a|profit|sourc|of|incom|he|is|a|meml|er
of|the|counti|and|state|medic|societi|and|is|a|physician|of|rare|skill
and|abil|whose|larg|practic|is|an|indic|of|the|posit|which|he
occupi|in|the|public|confid|and|regard
on|the|19th|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|dr|marci|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|mari|jane|a|daughter|of|abraham|bennett|who|was|a|seafar|man
and|a|pilot|seven|children|have|been|born|of|their|union|samuel|sum
ner|who|is|engag|in|the|drug|busi|wed|mari|moodi|and|they
have|two|children|samuel|sumner|and|martha|grant|henri|bennett|a
farmer|and|stock|dealer|marri|jenni|alzina|walter|and|they|have|three
coxgressiox|district|of|xejl|jersey|four hundred and ninety-three
children|virgil|m|d|who|is|name|for|his|grandfath|fred|w|antl
martha|d|besid|frederick|averi|who|die|in|childhood|sarah|ben
nett|is|the|wife|of|william|h|nelson|a|grocer|of|chester|pennsylvania
and|they|have|had|five|children|joseph|jenni|deceas|mari|william
henri|and|marguerit|alexand|studi|medicin|with|his|father|and|also
in|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|where|he|was|graduat|he|is|now|en
gage|in|practic|in|riverton|new|jersey|he|marri|mari|ann|marci
and|their|children|are|alexand|deceas|alexand|the|second|of|the
name|also|deceas|hannah|a|imargeri|and|reuben|sumner|jenni
is|the|wife|of|jame|e|taylor|and|they|have|two|children|mait|marci
and|logan|b|alvin|parker|marri|lizzi|fox|and|is|a|machinist|in|the
pavonia|car|shop|in|camden|new|jersey|his|children|are|salli|benja
min|margaret|virgil|and|alexand|the|home|of|the|famili|is|in|rosevill
new|jersey|fred|williamson|the|youngest|studi|medicin|in|the|uni
versiti|of|pennsylvania|and|is|now|practic|in|camden|new|jersey
in|his|polit|view|dr|v|you|d|marci|has|alway|been|a|stanch|demo
crat|unswerv|in|the|principl|of|his|parti|he|has|serv|as|township
clerk|but|has|never|been|an|aspir|for|ofifici|honor|prefer|to|devot
his|time|and|energi|to|his|profession|duti|and|the|enjoy|of|social
life|he|is|a|valu|and|exemplari|member|of|the|mason|fratern|and
for|eleven|consecut|year|was|master|of|his|lodg|he|is|a|man|of|strong
person|selfcontain|with|a|quiet|and|persist|determin|that
overcom|obstacl|and|make|possibl|the|attain|of|the|desir|goal
in|manner|he|is|at|onc|genial|and|kind|yet|bear|the|impress|of|that
dignitv|which|is|noticealil|in|men|who|feel|that|they|have|an|import|life
work|to|perform|and|who|are|exert|their|best|energi|to|that|entl|he
is|admir|throughout|the|countri|has|won|respect|among|the|medic|pro
fession|of|the|state|and|has|made|mani|warm|person|friend|at|home|and
abroad
harri|t|ford
this|wellknown|and|popular|citizen|of|swedesboro|who|succeed|his
father|georg|t|ford|as|the|landlord|and|proprietor|of|ford|s|hotel
was|born|in|the|hotel|januari|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|attend|the|public|school
in|his|boyhood|later|becam|a|pupil|in|miss|halsey|s|privat|school|at
swedesboro|and|complet|his|educ|in|dixon|colleg|at|carlisl
pennsylvania|on|his|return|home|he|becam|his|father|s|assist|in|the
liotel|and|also|attend|to|the|busi|of|the|farm|mr|ford|is|thorough
familiar|with|all|the|detail|of|hotel|manag|and|be|natur|en
four hundred and ninety-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
low|with|a|fine|pliysiqu|and|a|genial|oblig|disposit|he|make|an
ideal|landlord|as|is|attest|by|the|high|regard|in|which|the|ford|hous
is|held|by|the|travel|public|and|the|peopl|in|general|of|southern|new
jersey|for|a|short|time|he|conduct|a|liveri|sale|and|exchang|stabl
in|connect|with|the|hotel|and|be|a|great|admir|of|fine|hors|he
general|has|one|or|two|on|hand|which|are|good|trader|and|will|take|no
man|s|dust
mr|ford|was|marri|septemb|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|to|ilhelmina|c|rode|a
datight|of|william|rode|of|swedesboro|they|have|one|child|helen
thompson|air|ford|is|a|republican|in|his|polit|view|and|take|an
interest|in|local|afi|air|but|doe|not|aspir|to|be|a|politician|in|the|ordinari
accept|of|the|term|he|attend|strict|to|lousi|and|his|friend
predict|for|him|success|in|whatev|enterpris|he|may|undertak|he|doe
not|belong|to|ani|fratern|with|the|except|of|the|heptasoph
in|this|connect|it|may|be|interest|to|note|someth|of|the|famili
histori|of|mr|ford|his|father|georg|t|ford|was|a|son|of|thoma|and
rebecca|paul|ford|and|was|for|mani|year|engag|in|farm|and
butcher|at|paulsboro|and|later|at|swedesljoro|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|he|purchas
the|hotel|at|the|latter|place|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|rebuilt|and|refit|it|he|was|one
of|the|lead|citizen|and|most|high|respect|men|of|the|communiti|and
serv|his|counti|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|freehold|he|die|octob
twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|at|the|age|of|sixtyeight|year|he|was|marri|three|time|his|sec
ond|wife|elizabeth|miller|be|the|mother|of|our|subject|mar|l|ford
a|sister|of|harri|t|is|the|wife|of|dr|oliv|grimshaw|of|swedesboro
whose|sketch|will|be|found|on|anoth|page
john|t|french
investig|into|the|histori|of|mani|of|the|most|promin|men|of
the|countri|will|show|that|they|have|risen|from|lowli|posit|that|mer
chant|princ|of|our|land|onc|occupi|humbl|clerkship|that|the|man
ager|of|our|lead|industri|began|their|career|as|apprentic|at|a|trade
which|now|annual|return|to|them|thousand|of|dollar|etc|the|possi
biliti|of|advanc|which|our|countri|ofl|er|to|her|amliiti|young|men
is|her|crown|glori|here|individu|has|full|scope|and|success|offer
it|reward|in|return|for|continu|and|honor|effort|mr|french|is
one|who|has|worthili|gain|the|proud|american|titl|of|a|selfmad|man
and|today|he|is|account|one|of|the|lead|busi|repres|of|at
lantic|counti|be|extens|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|paint|in
hammonton|where|he|is|also|proprietor|of|the|hotel|roval
coxgressiox|district|of|nelf|jersey|four hundred and ninety-five
a|nativ|of|the|neighbor|state|of|pennsyhania|he|was|ijorn|in|dela
ware|counti|march|two|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|and|is|a|son|of|wilhani|w|anil|ann|airi
french|the|father|was|born|in|philadelphia|but|remov|to|trenton|xew
jersey|and|was|a|repres|of|an|old|french|famili|of|this|state|who
came|to|new|jersey|earli|in|the|seventeenth|centuri|his|birth|occur
in|one hundred and eighty-one|one|and|after|attain|to|year|of|matur|marri|miss|airi|who
was|born|in|bordentown|nelw|jersey|in|one hundred and eighty-one|five|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|the
father|s|death|occur|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|the|religi|faith|of|the|famili
was|that|of|the|societi|of|friend|and|differ|male|repres|of
the|name|possess|superior|mechan|genius
john|t|french|is|one|of|eleven|children|six|of|whom|yet|surviv|he
spent|his|earli|boyhood|day|on|his|father|s|farm|and|at|the|age|of|twelv
year|began|work|for|wage|be|employ|as|a|farm|hand|till|he|began
learn|the|painter|s|trade|complet|his|apprenticeship|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|then
commenc|work|as|a|journeyman|painter|be|an|expert|grainer|was
eventu|made|a|master|painter|and|to|him|was|given|all|the|respons
and|particular|work|intrust|to|his|firm|this|brought|him|excel
wage|and|eventu|enabl|him|to|engag|in|busi|on|his|own|account
he|took|up|his|abod|in|hammonton|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|and|engag|in|the|paint
busi|under|contract|for|five|year|take|larg|contract|and|receiv
ing|an|extens|patronag|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|becam|a|manufactur|of|paint
erect|a|factori|forti|liy|thirti|feet|he|commenc|oper|on|a
small|scale|expect|onli|to|suppli|his|own|want|in|that|direct|and|to
sell|to|some|extent|in|his|local|but|from|the|begin|the|busi|in
creas|and|in|cours|of|time|he|was|forc|to|enlarg|his|capac|in|order
to|meet|the|grow|demand|of|the|trade|his|sale|now|amount|to|fifti
thousand|dollar|annual|and|the|output|is|ship|to|all|section|of|the
countri|the|plant|is|control|and|manag|by|himself|and|his|son|all
of|whom|are|practic|manufactur|the|qualiti|of|their|good|is|unsur
pass|and|this|combin|with|their|honor|deal|has|secur|to
them|a|veri|larg|trade|mr|french|also|doe|a|larg|contract|busi
in|furnish|paint|not|onli|in|new|jersey|but|also|in|philadelphia|and
other|point|in|that|state|he|also|own|and|oper|a|store|in|atlant
citi|for|four|year|and|there|sold|larg|quantiti|of|his|paint|the|method
of|manufactur|which|he|follow|are|equal|to|ani|in|the|countri|and|his
busi|has|assum|extens|proport|bring|to|him|handsom
financi|return
mr|french|has|erect|a|numler|of|build|in|the|town|and|thus|con
tribut|to|the|upbuild|and|improv|of|the|place|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he
erect|the|hotel|roval|the|finest|hotel|between|camden|and|atlant
four hundred and ninety-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
citv|it|was|imilt|with|special|regard|to|sanitari|arrang|be|well
ventil|and|light|and|equip|with|all|the|modern|improv|and
accessori|it|is|person|conduct|by|mr|french|and|is|one|of|the
favorit|resort|with|the|travel|public|in|this|section|of|the|state
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|french|and|miss|jenni|r|alex
ander|a|daughter|of|william|and|amanda|morgan|alexand|they|have
five|children|live|john|t|who|is|associ|with|his|father|in|busi
ida|f|mrs|wilson|s|turner|howard|c|walter|and|wilbert
in|his|polit|view|mr|french|is|a|democrat|and|for|twenti|year|has
taken|an|activ|part|in|promot|the|interest|of|that|organ|he|was
a|member|of|the|counti|commission|for|mani|year|has|serv|as|a
member|of|the|citi|council|as|assessor|and|as|a|member|of|the|counti|board
of|elect|he|is|now|a|member|of|the|democrat|state|central|commit
tee|from|atlant|counti|and|has|frequent|been|a|deleg|to|the|state
counti|and|congression|convent|where|his|counsel|carri|weight
dure|presid|cleveland|s|second|administr|he|serv|as|post
master|and|at|all|time|has|labor|earnest|and|patriot|to|advanc
the|welfar|of|the|parti|which|he|believ|contain|the|best|element|of
good|govern|social|he|is|a|repres|of|the|n|g|taylor|lodg
no|one hundred and forty-one|f|a|m|winslow|lodg|no|forty|i|o|o|f|the|improv
order|of|red|men|and|hammonton|council|of|the|artisan|mutual|pro
tectiv|associ|he|is|a|man|of|inroad|humanitarian|principl|to|whom
the|becaus|of|justic|and|right|appeal|veri|strong|while|oppress|and
wrong|receiv|his|earnest|condemn|in|manner|he|is|kind|and|al
way|will|to|aid|those|who|are|will|to|help|themselv|charit|and
benevol|he|give|generous|but|unostentati|to|those|in|need|and
his|social|qualiti|are|such|as|to|win|him|friend|whereer|he|goe
samuel|salisburi
samuel|salisburi|a|retir|farmer|live|in|swedesboro|was|born|on|the
farm|near|pedrickston|in|logan|township|salem|counti|march|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four
and|his|parent|were|samuel|and|elizabeth|stansburi|salisburi|the|fam
ili|was|of|english|lineag|and|was|found|in|america|by|the|greatgrand
father|of|our|subject|who|left|his|nativ|england|and|cross|the|atlant|to
the|new|world|take|up|his|abod|in|woodstown|new|jersey|at|an|earli
period|in|the|develop|of|this|state|he|had|two|children|joseph|and
samuel|the|former|was|for|mani|year|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit
in|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|where|his|death|occur|he
marri|miss|hannah|nobl|a|daughter|of|william|nobl|who|was|of|irish
one
spsi
5i
congression|district|of|xew|lersev|four hundred and ninety-seven
extract|and|they|have|the|follow|children|benjamin|joseph|samuel
charl|nobl|sarah|the|wife|of|samuel|leap|hannah|the|wife|of|john
g|smith|and|carolin|the|wife|of|joseph|gambl
of|this|famili|samuel|salisburi|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|to|miss|elizabeth
stansburi|a|daughter|of|jame|and|sarah|stansburi|by|whom|he|had|seven
children|hannah|and|elizabeth|both|deceas|samuel|of|this|review
benjamin|who|has|pass|away|charl|who|resid|in|paulsboro|new
jersey|kate|the|wife|of|the|hon|harri|londenslag|of|paulsboro|meh
sa|deceas|in|her|lifetim|the|wife|of|frank|green|and|caddi|who|die
at|the|age|of|two|year|the|mother|of|these|children|was|call|to|her
final|rest|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|mr|salisburi|was|again|marri|his|second
union|be|with|miss|susanna|w|ege|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|he|was|marri
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|to|mrs|maria|nolan|who|is|still|live|though|left|an|orphan|at
an|earli|age|mr|salisburi|overcam|all|the|diiculti|and|obstacl|in|his
path|and|work|his|way|upward|to|success|becom|a|prosper|agricul
turist|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|purchas|a|farm|which|he|oper|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|when
he|retir|from|activ|life|he|die|in|paulsboro|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|at|the|age|of|sev
entythre|year|and|in|his|death|the|communiti|lost|one|of|it|valu|citi
zen|in|his|polit|afifili|he|was|a|democrat|and|held|sever|town
ship|ofific|discharg|his|duti|in|a|most|capabl|manner|both|he|and
his|wife|were|consist|member|of|the|methodist|episcoi|church|and
were|peopl|of|the|highest|respect
samuel|salisburi|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|paulsboro|and
assist|his|father|on|the|home|farm|until|1s68|when|he|began|farm
on|his|own|account|he|engag|in|the|oper|of|a|farm|for|henri
allen|his|fatherinlaw|between|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|and|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|and|at|the|latter
date|purchas|a|tract|of|land|a|mile|north|of|swedesboro|on|the|woodburi
pike|there|he|remain|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|when|he|remov|to|swedesboro|and
erect|his|present|beauti|resid
on|the|23d|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|mr|salisburi|was|unit|in|marriag|to|nliss
maria|f|allen|a|daughter|of|henri|and|catherin|fish|allen|of|cloumel
they|have|had|two|children|henri|a|who|is|now|a|student|in|bucknel|uni
versitv|and|samuel|s|who|die|at|the|age|of|five|year|mr|sahsburi|is|a
member|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|and|his|wife|belong
to|the|protest|episcop|church|in|polit|he|is|a|democrat|but|has
never|been|an|aspir|for|polit|honor|or|emolu|he|is|a|man|of
strict|integr|well|and|favor|known|in|gloucest|counti|and|his|life
illustr|what|can|be|accomplish|through|determin|effort|persever
and|good|manag|such|men|form|the|bulwark|of|the|nation
four hundred and ninety-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
r|j|byrn
the|manel|growth|of|hammonton|new|jersey|larg|stand|as|a
monument|to|the|enterpris|and|progress|spirit|of|judg|r|j|byrn
for|through|his|effort|in|it|behalf|it|commerci|and|industri|interest
have|been|advanc|and|mani|measur|for|the|public|good|have|been|pro
mote|gratitud|is|certain|due|to|the|man|who|give|of|his|mean|to
adorn|and|beautifi|a|local|and|he|may|well|be|term|a|benefactor|who
promot|busi|activ|for|thereon|rest|the|happi|and|wellb
of|the|peopl|no|name|is|more|insepar|associ|with|the|growth
and|substanti|develop|of|hammonton|than|that|of|judg|byrn|and
his|life|histori|is|certain|an|interest|one|for|it|exemplifi|the|truth|of
the|statement|that|success|is|not|a|matter|of|genius|but|is|the|outcom|of
the|faith|pursuit|of|a|laudabl|purpos
he|was|born|in|philadelphia|on|the|22d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|his|ma
ternal|grandfath|robert|fleme|the|emigr|on|cross|the|atlant
to|america|took|up|his|abod|in|trenton|new|jersey|where|he|work
at|the|cabinetmak|s|trade|his|wife|was|a|nativ|of|philadelphia|and|his
daughter|sarah|was|the|mother|of|the|judg|the|father|of|judg|byrn
was|for|mani|year|a|clerk|in|a|bank|in|philadelphia|own|by|stephen
girard|he|assist|in|the|survey|made|for|the|girard|colleg|of|that|citi
and|superintend|his|employ|s|commerci|interest|but|gave|his|time
most|to|the|bank|busi
judg|byrn|attend|the|grammar|school|of|his|nati|place|but|at
the|age|of|ten|year|enter|the|offic|of|the|pennsylvania|freeman|a
publish|hous|in|curti|alley|conduct|by|merrihew|and|thompson|at
that|earli|age|he|assist|in|read|proof|for|john|g|whittier|who|was
publish|a|number|of|his|poem|subsequ|our|subject|attend|the
st|augustus|school|enter|the|preparatori|for|order|in|the|cathol
church|but|abandon|that|plan|he|was|graduat|in|the|philadelphia|high
school|at|the|age|of|sixteen|year|and|then|enter|a|law|offic|devot
his|time|to|the|master|of|jurisprud|at|a|later|date|he|secur|a
posit|in|the|mechan|bank|of|philadelphia|and|while|in|that|institu
tion|he|serv|as|individu|and|general|bookkeep|as|discount|clerk|and
teller|win|promot|to|the|last|name|posit|within|six|year|at
the|expir|of|that|period|he|enter|into|partnership|with|c|k|landi
in|the|realest|busi|and|also|becam|a|stock|and|note|broker|of|phila
delphia|while|thus|engag|he|purchas|extens|tract|of|land|in|at
lantic|burlington|and|camden|counti|belong|to|the|richard|cooper
charlott|cushman|and|other|estat|in|i8s8|he|turn|his|attent|to
congression|district|of|new|jersey
four hundred and ninety-nine
the|develop|of|the|town|of|hammonton|and|otlier|place|and|the
progress|therein|made|is|larg|due|to|his|effort
on|the|1st|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|was|appoint|by|governor|beadl|to|the
posit|of|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|of|atlant|counti|and|by
three|consecut|appoint|he|was|continu|in|that|offic|for|the|long
period|of|twenti|consecut|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|on|the|organ|of|the
hammonton|build|loan|associ|he|was|made|the|presid|and
still|fill|that|offic|he|is|also|the|presid|of|the|peopl|s|bank|of|ham
monton|which|he|was|instrument|in|organ|and|for|which|he|has
act|as|the|head|sinc|it|format|he|is|the|secretari|of|the|hammonton
cranberri|improv|associ|and|was|one|of|the|founder|of|the
electriclight|plant|his|busi|interest|have|been|vari|and|extens
yet|under|his|abl|control|they|have|been|success|carri|forward
judg|byrn|was|marri|in|newburyport|massachusett|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|to
miss|fanni|g|atkinson|a|nativ|of|boston|and|they|have|an|extens
acquaint|judg|byrn|is|a|man|of|strong|individu|and|intellect
ualiti|and|on|account|of|his|broad|general|knowledg|is|number|among
the|scholar|men|of|the|state|he|has|been|and|is|in|control|of|extens
busi|interest|which|in|their|manag|demand|commerci|abil|and
execut|forc|he|display|keen|discrimin|in|deal|with|his|fellow
men|and|in|carri|on|these|enterpris|and|today|he|occupi|an|emin
place|as|a|leader|of|commerci|interest|his|reput|is|unassail|for
in|the|conduct|of|his|extens|affair|he|has|ever|manifest|the|most|mark
loyalti|to|the|principl|of|justic|and|integr
edward|waddington
this|lead|citizen|and|promin|farmer|of|elsinboro|township|was
born|in|this|township|jniarch|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine|a|son|of|richard|and|marv|ann
bowen|aaddington|he|was|rear|on|a|farm|and|receiv|his|educ
in|the|public|school|of|his|nativ|township|and|of|salem|continu|in|the
line|of|his|earli|train|he|has|alway|pursu|the|vocat|of|farm|and
has|occupi|the|farm|on|which|he|now|resid|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|has|a|well
till|farm|of|one|hundr|acr|keep|a|larg|dair|and|doe|a|general|farm
ing|busi|mr|waddington|is|a|democrat|in|his|polit|view|has
been|a|member|of|the|township|committe|and|is|now|a|truste|of|the|counti
almshous
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|was|marri|to|mari|daughter|of|daniel|hood
of|cumberland|counti|mrs|addington|die|juli|four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|thev|had
five|children|harri|born|octob|seventeen|i8|four|is|a|livestock|dealer|anna|k
five hundred|biograph|histori|of|the|first
born|septemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|die|novemb|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|phebe|h|born|juli|zy
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|marri|joseph|english|of|mannington|township|by|whom|she|has
one|child|edward|waddington|english|rachel|butcher|born|iarch|five
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|die|in|infanc|and|marj|ann|born|iay|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two
h|d|beckett
h|d|beckett|the|chief|engin|at|ioor|brother|glass|work|at
clayton|new|jersey|form|the|subject|of|this|memoir|mr|beckett|s
father|s|name|was|william|f|beckett|and|his|father|s|name|was|johnson
beckett|much|connect|with|the|histori|of|the|beckett|famili|appear|in
the|sketch|of|postmast|r|t|beckett|which|will|be|found|in|this|volum
henc|need|not|be|repeat|here
our|subject|was|born|in|glassboro|new|jersey|march|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|after
he|had|attend|the|common|school|and|while|look|about|for|someth
in|which|to|engag|for|a|livelihood|the|civilwar|cloud|made|it|dark|and
horrifi|appear|in|the|sky|of|our|union|and|good|young|men|were
demand|henc|it|was|that|our|subject|enter|the|twentyfourth|new
jersey|volunt|enlist|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|he|was|in|the|second
armi|corp|the|armi|of|the|potomac|and|under|general|french|he
saw|hard|servic|and|was|discharg|after|ten|month|he|reenlist|how
ever|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|in|the|ninth|new|jersey|and|was|with|sherman|on
his|famous|march|to|the|sea|he|remain|in|the|armi|after|peac|had
been|declar|to|gather|up|the|arm|etc|and|was|final|honor|dis
charg|juli|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|upon|his|return|he|immedi|went|into|the|em
ploy|of|moor|brother|as|a|carpent|later|he|becam|the|chief|carpent
and|final|becam|the|chief|engin|and|now|has|charg|of|the|work
power|and|build
with|refer|to|his|privat|life|let|it|be|said|that|he|is|liber|toward
the|church|and|is|a|member|of|the|knight|of|pythia|order|and|the|grand
armi|of|the|republ|he|has|been|command|of|the|latter|he|was|unit
in|marriag|to|hannah|hand|in|the|month|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|carl|d|is|their
onli|child|mrs|beckett|s|father|was|the|first|postmast|and|station|agent
at|clayton
mr|beckett|has|ever|been|a|loyal|true|citizen|and|may|just|be|proud
of|the|part|he|took|and|the|sacrific|he|made|that|the|union|of|state|might
be|preserv|he|begrudg|not|such|servic|but|doe|not|care|to|go
through|those|long|and|weari|march|again|or|even|to|know|that|ani
american|will|be|compel|to|do|as|he|with|hundr|of|thousand|of|the
brave|men|did|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|to|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and one
b|v|van|horn
one|of|the|lead|repres|of|the|build|interest|of|wildwood
is|b|v|van|horn|whose|extens|busi|has|contribut|larg|to|the
materi|develop|of|the|town|in|which|he|make|his|home|he|is|a|man
of|mark|enterpris|execut|forc|sound|judgment|and|keen|discern
and|these|quahti|have|gain|him|a|posit|among|the|substanti|citizen
of|cape|may|counti
mr|van|horn|is|one|of|the|nativ|son|of|the|empir|state|his|birth|hav
ing|occur|in|sing|sing|new|york|march|i|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|his|parent|be
david|and|mari|l|atchison|an|horn|the|patern|grandfath|berger
anderett|van|horn|resid|in|sing|sing|and|was|a|wheelwright|by
trade|but|in|the|latter|part|of|his|life|he|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|hand
sled|his|polit|support|was|given|to|the|republican|parti|he|was
twice|marri|and|by|his|second|union|has|sever|children|but|daxid|an
horn|was|the|onli|child|by|the|first|marriag|the|grandfath|die|at|the
age|of|seventyseven|year|david|van|horn|was|born|in|sing|sing|and
obtain|his|educ|in|the|militari|academi|at|that|place|in|eariy|life
he|engag|in|the|bakeri|busi|at|haverstraw|new|york|and|then
learn|the|trade|of|manufactur|piano|but|did|not|follow|it|devot
his|energi|to|contract|and|build|he|die|in|portland|oregon|while
sell|piano|on|the|pacif|coast|his|death|occur|when|he|had|reach
the|age|of|fiftynin|year|his|wife|pass|away|when|fiftythre|year|of
age|in|their|famili|were|six|children|georg|t|hutchinson|deceas
b|v|virginia|the|wife|of|h|l|woolcott|a|druggist|of|philadelphia|mae
e|the|wife|of|rev|eldredg|a|baptist|clergyman|of|hatboro|pennsyl
vania|by|whom|she|has|one|child|raymond|david|mellvill|a|carpent
and|builder|of|provid|rhode|island|who|marri|ida|van|horn|and
had|a|daughter|victoria|irginia|and|kati|who|die|at|the|age|of|eighteen
month
mr|van|horn|of|this|review|obtain|his|educ|in|the|public
school|pursu|his|studi|at|the|high|school|of|vineland|new|jersey
at|the|age|of|eighteen|he|put|asid|his|textbook|to|take|up|the|duti|of|the
farm|and|later|he|learn|the|carpent|s|trade|he|then|engag|in|con
tract|and|build|in|vineland|new|jersey|for|seven|year|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety
came|to|wildwood|sinc|which|time|he|has|erect|twothird|of|the|build
ing|in|this|place|among|the|structur|which|stand|as|monument|to|his
skill|and|enterpris|are|the|marin|hall|hotel|the|aetna|hotel|edgerton
inn|the|ryan|store|build|the|trenton|board|hous|cedar|craft|the
pine|and|the|baptist|church|he|employ|fifteen|men|through|the|summer
five hundred and two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
season|and|ten|men|throughout|tlie|winter|and|now|has|six|resid|under
contract|he|erect|the|largest|privat|resid|in|the|placea|palati
home|of|twentytwo|room|locat|at|the|corner|of|pacif|and|pine|street
and|construct|on|architectur|plan|of|his|own|design|mr|van|horn
is|also|engag|in|the|plumb|busi|and|in|lumber|and|mill|work|own
ing|and|conduct|a|lumberyard|at|wildwood|he|is|a|member|of|the
labor|mechan|build|loan|associ|and|is|a|man|of|re
sourc|busi|abil|who|carri|forward|to|success|complet|what
ever|he|undertak
in|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|van|horn|and|miss
ella|daughter|of|christian|and|ella|eilenburg|kemmer|of|vineland
new|jersey|where|her|father|is|now|live|retir|mr|and|mrs|van|horn
have|two|children|paulin|virginia|and|stella|marguereta
mr|van|horn|has|been|quit|activ|connect|with|the|vari|social
and|public|interest|of|southern|new|jersey|he|give|his|polit|support
to|the|republican|parti|has|serv|as|collector|of|wildwood|was|treasur
for|three|year|and|was|assessor|for|three|year|he|hold|membership|in|the
hoba|lodg|i|o|o|f|of|mneland|is|a|member|and|foreman|of|the
wildwood|hook|and|ladder|compani|and|for|six|year|was|a|memberof
compani|k|sixth|regiment|new|jersey|nation|guard|and|also|belong
to|the|first|baptist|church|and|is|one|of|it|truste|his|life|has|been|a
busi|and|use|one|in|which|fidel|to|duti|honor|deal|and|ind
fatig|energi|have|won|him|gratifi|success|and|gain|him|the|respect
of|all|with|whom|he|has|come|in|contact
john|rachor|jr
john|rachor|is|the|proprietor|of|the|newton|hous|at|woodburi|one
of|the|most|note|hostelri|of|southern|new|jersey|and|to|the|travel
public|he|is|wide|and|favor|known|not|onli|doe|he|possess|the
busi|abil|which|enabl|him|to|success|conduct|his|enterpris|l|ut
has|a|genial|courteous|mien|which|eveiwwher|win|him|consider|and
regard|and|has|gain|for|him|mani|warm|friend
a|nativ|of|philadelphia|pennsylvania|mr|rachor|was|born|juli|twenty
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|is|a|son|of|john|rachor|who|is|now|and|has|been|for|thirtyfour
year|a|resid|of|woodburi|where|dure|the|greater|part|of|the|time|he
has|been|engag|in|the|groceri|busi|he|is|a|nativ|of|germani|and
is|an|enterpris|progress|citizen|loyal|devot|to|the|best|interest
congression|district|of|new|jersey
five hundred and three
secur|a|hotel|licens|the|onli|third|licens|ever|grant|m|oodin|r
respect|for|his|abl|manag|of|the|hotel
the|newton|hous
the|newton|hous|is|one|of|the|old|histor|hotel|in|southern|new
jer|htig|been|bmlt|more|than|a|centuri|ago|it|was|then|of|a|veri
advanc|style|of|architectur|but|the|de
sicm|now|has|a|quaint|and|antiqu
that|render|the|place|one|of|the|pictur
esqu|portion|of|woodburi|it|has|been
own|and|manag|by|mani|leadmg
hotel|men|and|in|the|earli|day|when
stae|were|the|mean|of|transport
and|railroad|had|not|then|been|bmlt|the
newton|hous|was|a|famous|stage|station
the|hotel|is|alway|kept|in|good|repair
and|it|furnish|are|modern|and|tast
ful|it|contain|fiftyf|room|which
are|larg|and|conveni|arrang|and
everyth|about|jjl|f|een|year|the|hotel|was
nlni|the|clerk|of|the|newton|hous|is|major|charl|f|salkeld|one|ot
he|bestknoi|hotel|men|in|the|countri|have|een|connecth|ead
tg|hotel|in|various|part|of|the|unit|state|includ|the|grand|pacif
the|new|tun|ik|i
five hundred and four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
of|chicago|and|a|number|of|lead|hotel|in|philailelphia|and|new|york
citi|he|was|a|soldier|in|the|war|of|the|rebellion|and|serv|his|countr
well|as|a|member|of|the|third|new|jersey|infantri
william|o|mlliam|who|for|oer|twenti|year|has|been|in|charg|of|the
bar|is|also|well|known|in|connect|with|the|hotel|busi|he|is|a|man
of|gentleman|demeanor|and|has|mani|friend|the|newton|hous|is
certain|one|of|the|most|popular|in|southern|new|jersey|and|well|deserv
is|the|prosper|which|is|enjoy|by|the|proprietor|mr|rachor
in|polit|he|is|independ|social|he|is|a|mason|has|taken|the
arious|degre|of|the|order|and|is|a|member|of|lulu|templ|of|the|mystic
shrine|of|philadelphia|he|also|belong|to|the|independ|order|of|odd
fellow|of|woodburi|to|the|encamp|of|the|same|organ|to|the
knight|of|pythia|fratern|and|to|the|improv|order|of|red|men|he
is|also|a|member|of|the|republican|club
mr|rachor|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|schowenland|of|mantow
near|woodburi|and|they|have|a|daughter|who|is|now|a|student|at|st
mari|s|hall|in|burlington|new|jersey|they|attend|the|presbyterian
church|and|have|a|wide|acquaint|in|woodburi|where|they|enjoy|the
hospit|of|mani|of|the|best|home
the|goff|fa|hli
the|name|of|goff|has|long|been|known|in|cape|lay|counti|in|connec
tion|with|the|busi|interest|and|public|enterpris|which|have|form|the
histori|of|the|communiti|the|first|of|the|name|of|whom|we|have|record
was|david|goi|and|his|wife|was|mari|goff|mong|their|children|were
john|who|wed|rhoda|corson|daniel|who|marri|sarah|bishop|sus
thena|who|becam|a|minist|and|die|in|earlv|manhood|illiam|who|went
west|and|daid
the|last|name|was|the|grandfath|of|mrs|bishop|he|was|born|at
tuckaho|new|jersey|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|made|farm|his|life|work|and
was|also|a|local|minist|of|the|methodist|episcop|church|of|tuckaho
and|he|spent|his|last|day|at|eldora|his|wife|bore|the|maiden|name|of
ellen|corson|and|their|children|were|david|who|follow|farm|at
eldora|cape|may|counti|marri|rebecca|mccarti|and|their|daughter
sarah|marri|joseph|powel|of|eldora|by|whom|she|had|four|children
franklin|rachel|rebecca|and|anna|david|gofi|marri|abigail|stite
who|had|one|child|emma|dawson|samuel|now|deceas|marri|deborah
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and five
smith|and|their|children|were|wilh|achsah|adeha|walter|harriet|ella
howard|and|deborah|he|was|a|carpent|and|builder|by|trade|ashburi
a|farmer|marri|henrietta|christian|and|had|five|children|mari|the|wife
of|walton|grace|isaiah|who|marri|lucinda|bishop|david|e|who|mar
rie|lizzi|town|staci|a|leaclier|marri|martha|goff|walter
a|contractor|and|builder|marri|emelin|swing|of|fairton|new
jersey|and|their|children|were|louisa|who|marri|dr|bateman
harriet|who|marri|horac|van|dorn|of|red|bank|julia|the
wife|of|lloyd|smith|charl|william|and|georg|jame|a|farmer|mar
rie|sarah|ilckaig|and|had|five|children|ephraim|garner|harri|rebecca
and|jenni|carolin|becam|the|wife|of|illiam|christian|by|whom|she
had|three|children|elizabeth|david|and|charl|lydia|the|youngest
of|the|famili|becam|the|wife|of|charl|crawford|a|sea|captain|and|both
are|now|deceas|judg|goff|was|the|eldest|and|david|next|whose|father
was|david
li|the|famili|of|david|goff|were|the|follow|children|judg|joseph
goff|who|wed|hannah|stevenson|live|at|eldora|was|a|farmer|by
occup|and|also|serv|as|judg|and|justic|of|the|peac|his|children
were|ellen|the|wife|of|david|pearson|lydia|the|wife|of|charl|crawford
phoeb|the|wife|of|jame|hand|william|who|wed|anna|zilla|steelman
charl|who|marri|hannah|hummel|elbridg|who|marri|sarah|god
frey|edward|who|marri|kate|elmer|and|eli|who|marri|catherin
chamber|william|the|next|of|the|famili|marri|margaret|wilson|first
and|afterward|imartha|nicholson|and|follow|blacksmith|in|eldora|he
had|three|children|ruth|who|becam|the|wife|of|jame|randolph|and|had
two|children|albert|and|ida|the|latter|a|teacher|joseph|who|marri
eliza|perri|and|had|three|daughter|martha|ellen|and|eliza|and|rich
ard|who|marri|eliza|elliott|at|bryn|mawr|and|had|three|children
gertrud|loui|and|ethel|rachel|the|third|of|the|famili|becam|the|wife
of|walter|spicer|a|teacher|who|resid|at|tuckaho|john|was|the|youngest
of|that|famili
john|goff|was|born|at|eldora|octob|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|pursu|his|educ
in|eldora|and|learn|the|blacksmith|s|trade|at|woodburi|new|jersey|he
follow|that|pursuit|until|seventyf|year|of|age|and|also|carri|on|farm
ing|until|nineti|year|of|age|he|live|for|mani|year|at|chew|s|land
gloucest|counti|but|after|his|marriag|remov|to|eldora|where|he|pur
chase|a|farm|and|carri|on|agricultur|pursuit|and|blacksmith|he
also|dealt|in|wood|although|veri|young|at|the|time|of|the|war|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he
can|rememb|mani|incid|concern|the|struggl|recollect|how|on
one|occas|he|climb|a|tree|to|get|a|glimps|of|the|fire|on|delawar
5o6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
bay|he|marri|hannah|eldridg|and|their|children|were|deborah
the|eldest|becam|the|wife|of|thoma|robert|of|philadelphia|and|they|had
four|children|william|walter|john|and|maybella|matilda|the|second
never|marri|margaret|becam|the|wife|of|eleaz|crawford|a|merchant
of|dennisvill|and|they|had|three|children|iren|margaret|and|eleaz
susan|never|marri|hester|ann|becam|the|wife|of|ludlam|hand|a
merchant|at|cape|may|court|hous|they|had|three|children|dr|l|l
hand|ray|e|and|helen|l|harriet|becam|the|wife|of|captain|herbert
carrol|and|had|five|children|mauric|paul|loui|helen|and|j|herbert
rae|ellen|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|to|samuel|bishop|a|merchant|and|farmer
of|eldora|and|they|have|one|daughter|lulu|lee|william|e|marri|eliza
beth|gamson|by|whom|he|had|two|children|sarah|and|william|and
after|her|death|he|marri|kate|barley|by|whom|he|had|two|children
hannah|and|jacob|he|is|a|ship|broker|and|resid|in|philadelphia
john|goff|the|father|of|these|children|was|a|wit|of|the|first|funer
and|the|first|inter|in|the|old|buryingground|at|eldora|and|after|that
saw|more|than|four|hundr|inter|there|he|was|a|republican|in|his
polit|view|and|was|a|faith|and|consist|member|of|the|methodist
episcop|church|at|eldora|for|seventytwo|year|he|held|mani|ofific|in
the|church|was|activ|in|sundayschool|work|long|taught|in|the|school|and
was|a|thorough|and|well|inform|bibl|student
joseph|jessup
for|almost|two|centuri|the|name|of|jessup|has|figur|in|connect
with|the|busi|interest|of|gloucest|counti|and|with|the|record|of|the
counti|s|advanc|along|social|intellectu|and|moral|line|it|repr
sentat|have|ever|been|promin|and|respect|citizen|and|no|man|in
gloucest|counti|was|more|esteem|and|honor|for|sterl|worth|or
charact|than|he|whose|name|introduc|this|review|joseph|jessup|was
born|in|this|counti|may|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and two|in|the|town|of|greenwich|where|he|spent
his|earli|life|the|ancestri|in|america|can|be|trace|back|to|one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-seven|when
john|jessup|his|greatgrandfath|cross|the|atlant|from|his|english
home|and|took|up|his|abod|in|the|township|of|deptford|near|the|villag
of|woodburi|a|more|complet|ancestr|histori|of|the|jessup|is|given|in
connect|with|the|sketch|of|charl|clark|jessup|on|anoth|page|of|this
work|from|his|nativ|township|joseph|jessup|remov|to|harrison|town
ship|where|he|becam|extens|engag|in|agricultur|pursuit|own
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|five hundred and seven
larg|tract|of|land|he|was|also|connect|with|the|lumber|jjusi|and
wat|known|as|one|of|the|counti|s|most|prosper|and|enterpris|resid
he|becam|one|of|the|incorpor|of|the|gloucest|counti|bank|now
the|first|nation|bank|and|serv|as|a|member|of|it|director|his
busi|judgment|was|sound|and|reliabl|and|in|the|care|conduct|of|his
afifair|he|won|a|handsom|compet|his|integr|in|commerci|life
was|proverbi|and|in|all|trade|transact|he|was|known|to|be|most|relia1|ile
he|was|deepli|interest|in|the|growth|and|develop|of|the|communiti
and|assist|it|progress|in|everi|way|in|his|power
mr|jessup|was|twice|marri|he|first|wed|mari|ood|and|unto
them|was|born|one|child|that|die|in|infanc|after|the|death|of|his|first
wife|he|was|join|in|wedlock|to|miss|mari|qark|and|they|becam|the
parent|of|seven|children|name|anni|e|j|jame|b|john|s|joseph
deceas|charl|c|edward|h|deceas|and|sarah|who|has|also|pass
away|tlie|eldest|son|is|now|a|retir|farmer|resid|in|woodstown|this
state|john|s|the|second|son|has|attain|distinct|as|a|member|of|the
legal|profess|he|was|born|august|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|in|lincoln|harrison|town
ship|gloucest|counti|and|in|the|public|school|acquir|his|primari
educ|which|was|supplement|by|a|collegi|cours|in|the|west|jersey
academi|of|bridgeton|in|which|institut|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|he
then|enter|princeton|colleg|and|was|graduat|there|with|the|class|of
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|dure|the|same|year|he|began|the|studi|of|law|under|the|direct
of|hon|frederick|t|frelinghuysen|of|newark|new|jersey|and|subs
quentli|spent|one|year|in|the|law|depart|of|harvard|colleg|he|was
admit|to|the|bar|of|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|and|at|onc|began|the|practic|of
his|chosen|profess|in|woodburi|his|natur|abil|was|supplement|by
care|and|thorough|prepar|and|his|ad|experi|as|the|year|have
pass|has|given|him|mark|prestig|as|a|repres|of|his|chosen
call|he|is|thorough|inform|in|all|depart|of|law|and|is|recog
nize|as|a|lead|memljer|of|the|bar|of|southern|new|jersey|he|was
appoint|the|presid|judg|of|the|court|of|common|plea|on|the|ist|of
april|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|still|hold|that|posit|which|he|fill|with|a|digniti|and
abiirtv|that|reflect|credit|and|honor|upon|himself|his|offic|and|his|constit
uent|he|has|been|a|member|of|the|woodburi|citi|council|for|nine|year
and|for|ten|year|has|serv|as|the|clerk|and|counselor|of|the|board|of|free
holder|the|judg|has|also|been|the|solicitor|of|the|first|nation|bank
of|woodburi|for|thirti|year|he|is|a|stanch|republican|in|his|polit
view|but|never|allow|parti|prefer|to|interfer|with|the|imparti|dis
charg|of|his|judici|duti|he|hold|membership|in|the|presbyterian
church|on|the|2d|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
5o8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
mari|moor|howel|a|daughter|of|dr|benjamin|p|and|rachel|l|howel
of|woodburi|the|children|born|to|them|are|joseph|who|was|born|jan
uari|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|and|is|now|an|electr|engin|benjamin|h|who|die|in
childhood|john|s|a|civil|engin|mari|h|rachel|l|anna|g|and
sarah
joseph|jessup|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|whig|parti|in|earli|man
hood|and|on|the|organ|of|the|republican|parti|join|it|rank|and
continu|to|advoc|it|principl|throughout|the|remaind|of|his|life|he
was|never|an|aspir|for|polit|honor|although|he|accept|the|offic
of|sheriff|at|the|earnest|solicit|of|his|friend|and|serv|for|two|term
he|worship|with|the|societi|of|friend|and|his|life|which|exemplifi|his
christian|faith|was|character|by|upright|and|integr|that|com
mand|the|respect|and|confid|of|his|fellow|men|wherev|he|was|known
his|death|occur|veri|sudden|februari|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|and|his|loss|was|mourn
throughout|the|entir|communiti|he|was|a|man|whose|depth|of|charact
and|strong|adherencv|to|principl|excit|the|admir|of|his|contem
porari|and|all|who|knew|him|recogn|that|his|charact|was|abov
reproach
rev|dr|john|ewe
one|of|the|most|emin|repres|of|the|presbyterian|clergi
of|the|east|is|the|gentleman|whose|name|initi|this|review|the|present
pastor|of|the|presbyterian|church|of|pittsgrov|at|daretown|a|man|of
broad|scholar|attain|gift|with|strong|intellectu|he|has|devot
his|life|to|this|most|holi|call|and|has|been|a|mark|power|for|good
in|advanc|the|work|of|the|church|and|promot|the|becaus|of|chris
tianitv|among|men|he|was|born|in|ewingvill|pennsylvania|near|the
citv|of|pittsburg|and|is|a|son|of|jame|ewe|the|ancestri|of|the|famili
can|be|trace|back|to|earli|coloni|day|when|finley|ewe|cross|the
atlant|to|the|new|world|he|receiv|a|sword|from|the|king|of|england
in|recognit|of|the|great|braveri|which|he|display|in|the|battl|of
burgoyn|the|grandfath|jame|ewe|sr|was|one|of|the|first|settler
of|allegheni|counti|pennsylvania|and|built|the|first|gristmil|there|by
the|judici|manag|of|his|busi|interest|he|accumul|con
sider|wealth|and|was|regard|as|one|of|the|most|promin|and|inthi
ential|citizen|of|his|communiti
dr|ewe|spent|his|boyhood|day|in|his|parent|home|and|suppl
ment|his|earli|educ|privileg|by|a|cours|at|jefferson|colleg
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|five hundred and nine
now|washington|and|jefferson|colleg|where|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight
in|a|class|of|seventysix|student|the|largest|class|that|has|ever|been
graduat|west|of|the|allegheni|mountain|up|to|that|time|the|degre
of|bachelor|of|art|was|confer|upon|him|and|later|his|alma|mater
bestow|upon|him|the|degre|of|master|of|art|and|doctor|of|philosophi
the|degre|of|doctor|of|divin|was|confer|upon|him|by|windsor
colleg|of|maryland|an|indic|of|his|scholar|acquir|and|his
emin|posit|in|ministeri|circl
determin|to|devot|his|life|to|the|proclam|among|men|of|the
glad|tide|of|great|joy|he|matricul|in|the|allegheni|presbyterian
theolog|seminari|and|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|his|first|pastor|was
over|triniti|church|in|philadelphia|through|his|instrument|the
hous|of|worship|was|erect|and|he|remain|in|charg|of|the|congrega
tion|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|when|he|accept|a|call|from|the|church|in
clinton|new|jersey|where|he|remain|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|dure|that|time
the|present|governor|of|new|jersey|was|a|scholar|in|the|sundayschool
on|leav|clinton|he|accept|the|pastor|of|the|presbyterian|church
in|plymouth|pennsylvania|where|he|continu|two|year|and|on|the|ist
of|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|came|to|the|pittsgrov|presbyterian|church|at
daretown|where|he|has|now|remain|for|fifteen|year|his|church|asso
ciation|here|are|veri|pleasant|he|has|the|largest|congreg|in|the
counti|and|the|various|depart|of|the|church|work|are|in|a|veri
flourish|condit|in|the|pulpit|he|is|a|fluent|and|entertain|speaker
profound|in|his|reason|logic|in|his|deduct|and|convinc|in|argu
ment|he|has|that|broad|general|knowledg|and|cultur|which|onli|travel
can|bring|and|his|reminisc|of|europ|and|the|holi|land|enrich
and|adorn|his|discours|make|them|both|instruct|and|entertain
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|he|went|abroad|as|a|deleg|from|the|presbyterian|church|of
the|unit|state|to|the|general|assembl|of|the|church|of|scotland|and
deliv|one|of|the|most|abl|address|befor|that|assemblag|he
has|also|visit|mani|place|of|histor|and|modern|interest|on|the|contin
and|has|travel|amid|the|scene|of|palestin|made|sacr|by|the|holi
associ|connect|therewith
at|this|point|it|would|be|almost|tautolog|to|enter|into|ani|seri|of
statement|as|show|dr|ewe|to|be|a|man|of|broad|intellig|and
genuin|public|spirit|for|these|have|been|shadow|forth|between|the|line
of|this|review|strong|in|his|individu|he|never|lack|the|courag|of
his|convict|but|there|are|as|domin|element|in|this|individu
a|live|human|sympathi|and|an|abid|chariti|which|as|taken|in|con
5io
biograph|histori|of|the|first
nection|with|the|sterl|integr|and|honor|of|his|charact|have|natmauy
gain|to|dr|ewe|the|respect|and|confid|of|men
presbyterian|church|of|ilttsgrov
the|pres1|vterian|church|of|pittsgrov|locat|at|daretown|new
jersey|has|been|in|exist|for|more|than|one|hinidr|and|fifti|year
april|thirty|one|seventy-four|one|has|general|been|accept|as|the|date|of|it|organiza
tion|although|there|was|a|congreg|form|prior|to|that|time|servic
be|held|at|inter|more|or|less|troubl|occur|in|the|church|and
the|societi|was|not|regular|under|the|superintend|of|the|presbyteri
until|about|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|at|a|date|not|known|a|hous|for|public|worship|was
erect|by|the|congreg|not|far|from|the|villag|of|woodston|but|it
was|neglect|and|fell|into|decay|soon|after|the|year|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|about|the
begin|of|may|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|the|rev|david|evan|of|tredyffrin|in|pennsyl
vania|began|to|preach|for|the|congreg|and|soon|after|assum|pas
toral|charg|on|the|30th|of|april|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-one|he|form|and|organ|a
presbyterian|church|when|fortynin|member|were|admit|to|the|enjoy
ment|of|the|special|ordin|of|the|gospel|about|the|time|of|the|arriv
of|mr|evan|a|new|meet|hous|was|erect|on|the|site|of|the|present
hous|of|worship|he|continu|to|offici|in|the|ministri|there|until
novemb|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty|dure|which|time|he|receiv|to|the|communion|of|the
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eleven
church|one|hundr|and|fourteen|person|and|baptiz|two|hundr|and
eightyfour|he|was|succeed|in|the|pastor|decemb|twelve|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-two|by
the|rev|neliemiah|greenman|who|was|ordain|decemb|five|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|and
dure|his|ministri|the|present|church|edific|was|erect|while|he
continu|in|the|pastor|there|he|baptiz|three|hundr|person|and
the|congreg|great|increas|in|number|and|also|great|increas
it|properti|hold
the|rev|william|schenck|the|third|pastor|of|the|congreg|was
instal|may|three|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|did|good|work|for|the|church|and|at|length|was
dismiss|on|account|of|his|fail|health|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|his|successor|was|the
rev|isaac|foster|who|becam|pastor|of|the|church|in|june|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|he
was|follow|by|rev|samuel|laycock|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|and|he|was|suc
ceed|june|four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-nine|by|rev|buckley|carll|who|remain|in|charg|of
the|church|for|three|and|a|half|year|the|next|regular|minist|was|rev
hezekiah|north|woodruff|and|he|was|follow|by|rev|john|clark|who
took|charg|of|the|congreg|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and six|in|april|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|he
report|ninetyf|communic|he|retir|from|that|pastor|the
follow|year|and|until|one hundred and eighty-one|two|the|church|was|without|a|regular|minist
the|next|to|accept|the|pastor|was|rev|g|w|janvier|who|had|charg
of|the|congreg|for|near|fortyseven|yearst|a|period|of|great|pros
periti|to|the|church|and|one|mutual|help|benefici|and|pleasant|to
pastor|and|peopl|when|he|assum|charg|the|membership|was|nineti
eight|and|at|the|time|of|his|resign|was|five|hundr|and|fortyseven
he|was|a|cultur|gentleman|and|his|polit|was|proverbi|as
pastor|preacher|and|presbyt|he|was|just|held|in|high|esteem|he|took
a|live|interest|in|the|afifair|of|the|church|and|countri|was|a|faith
friend|and|a|wise|counsellor
the|next|pastor|was|the|rev|edward|patrick|shield|dd|who|was
instal|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|in|the|spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|the|congreg|decid
to|build|a|new|church|but|it|was|not|until|august|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|that|it|was
dedic|rev|dr|shield|remain|in|charg|of|the|pittsgrov|church
for|near|thirteen|year|and|was|high|appreci|and|great|belov|by
the|entir|congreg|he|was|succeed|by|the|rev|william|a|fer
guson|in|one|eighty-seven|one|the|last|name|was|a|gentleman|of|scholar|attain
a|graduat|of|the|princeton|theolog|seminari|a|faith|pastor|and
an|excel|preacher|the|church|grew|rapid|under|his|care|and|he
continu|at|it|head|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|he|remov|to|marysvill|ohio
the|next|pastor|was|the|rev|j|d|randolph|who|was|instal|june|fifteen
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|was|a|veri|abl|minist|but|tender|his|resign|in|april
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|and|in|august|of|that|year|his|pastor|relat|with|the|pittsgrov
five hundred and twelve|biograph|histori|of|the|first
church|was|discontinu|on|the|13th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|rev|john|ewe
dd|was|instal|as|pastor|and|has|sinc|been|in|charg|of|the|church
his|work|be|most|accept|the|cliurch|has|grown|in|number
strength|and|influenc|under|his|care|and|is|now|the|largest|congreg
in|the|countv
s|d|lodg
more|than|a|centuri|has|pass|sinc|the|ancestor|of|s|d|lodg|left
their|home|in|england|and|cross|the|xtlantic|to|america|take|up|their
abod|in|greenwich|township|gloucest|count|on|the|bank|of|the|dela
ware|river|properti|was|there|purchas|and|the|famili|remain|in|that
local|for|mani|vear|joseph|lodg|the|grandfath|engag|in|shad
fish|on|a|river|at|that|place|his|son|joseph|the|father|of|our|subject
was|born|in|greenwich|township|and|remov|to|mantua|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-nine|he|en
gage|in|merchandis|and|also|in|ship|cordwood|to|philadelphia
in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|howev|he|took|up|his|abod|upon|a|farm|in|this|local|where
he|made|his|home|until|his|death|which|occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|serv|as|a
commission|of|deed|and|was|at|one|time|a|candid|for|the|state|legisla
ture|the|becaus|of|temper|found|in|him|a|zealous|advoc|and|he
was|larg|instrument|in|advanc|it|interest|he|marri|amanda
dare|a|daughter|of|samuel|dare|of|daretown|salem|counti|she|die
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|three|of|her|four|children|surviv|her|name|fanni|who|is
live|in|philadelphia|kate|the|wife|of|a|h|mose|of|that|citi|and|s|d
mr|lodg|of|this|review|pursu|his|educ|in|the|common|school
and|afterward|engag|in|teach|for|two|year|in|this|neighborhood|he
was|born|in|mantua|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|has|pass|his|entir|life|in|this|local
he|engag|in|farm|for|some|year|after|attain|his|major|and|is|still
the|owner|of|sixti|acr|of|farm|land|constitut|one|of|the|best|farm
in|the|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|took|up|his|abod|in|mantua|where|he|purchas
a|place|he|is|also|engag|to|some|extent|in|the|realest|busi|and
draw|up|mani|will|for|peopl|in|this|local|his|busi|interest|are
abli|conduct|and|have|brought|to|him|credit|success
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|mr|lodg|marri|sarah|eastlock|a|daughter|of|john|eastlock
of|this|local|three|children|were|born|to|them|of|whom|two|are|live
rolla|a|graduat|of|drexler|institut|and|now|a|civil|engin|of|philadel
phia|and|anni|the|wife|of|j|r|wilson|of|philadelphia|in|his|polit
view|mr|lodg|is|a|democrat|and|his|fellow|townsmen|recogn|his
worth|and|abil|frequent|call|him|to|public|offic|he|has|serv|in
all|the|township|posit|be|clerk|of|the|town|when|onli|twenti|one
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and thirteen
year|of|age|for|seventeen|year|he|has|serv|as|township|collector|and
what|higher|testimoni|could|be|given|he|is|a|progress|and|pubhc
spirit|citizen|and|take|a|deep|interest|in|everyth|pertain|to|the
welfar|of|the|communiti
franklin|lippincott
franklin|lippincott|a|wellknown|veterinari|surgeon|and|farmer|of
woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|is|a|nativ|of|this|state
born|at|gibbstown|june|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|and|is|a|repres|of|a|famili|whose
resid|in|this|counti|cover|the|past|centuri
dr|lippincott|is|a|son|of|howel|and|ann|style|lippincott|his
mother|s|widow|name|have|been|pancoast|his|grandpar|georg
and|tacey|lippincott|lippincott|came|to|greenwich|township|gloucest
counti|soon|after|one thousand, eight hundred|and|rear|four|children|howel|hannah|the|wife
of|jonathan|bennett|of|swedesboro|mari|the|wife|of|eno|stretch|of
gibbstown|and|sarah|the|wife|of|isaac|warner|of|paulsboro|howel
lippincott|was|a|schoolteach|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|at|the|age|of|thirtyf
year|leav|two|children|william|who|die|at|the|age|of|eight|year|and
franklin|the|subject|of|this|sketch
franklin|receiv|his|educ|in|the|chestnut|hill|and|clarksboro|pub
lic|school|of|greenwich|township|and|in|the|gloucest|high|school|and
pursu|his|studi|in|veterinarvsurgeri|under|the|instruct|of|peter|f
lock|whose|father|and|grandfath|were|veterinari|surgeon|thus|be
side|the|ordinari|mean|of|acquir|textbook|theori|dr|lippincott|had
an|opportun|of|obtain|the|practic|knowledg|of|the|art|and|scienc
of|veterinari|surgeri|which|came|of|three|generat|of|practic|and|pro
fession|observ|in|the|practic|of|his|profess|he|has|been|veri
success|and|in|addit|to|meet|the|demand|of|his|practic|travel
over|a|larg|territori|he|carri|on|farm|oper|nine|year|he
resid|on|the|judg|thompson|farm|and|dure|the|past|fifteen|year|has
occupi|his|present|place|known|as|the|john|k|clark|estat
dr|lippincott|marri|miss|josephin|casperson|a|daughter|of|samuel
l|casperson|a|delawar|river|captain|and|the|fruit|of|their|union|have
been|seven|children|name|harriet|a|train|nurs|of|philadelphia
lizzi|at|home|samuel|who|die|in|childhood|margaret|a|school
teacher|ada|and|ida|twin|the|latter|the|wife|of|charl|fedzer|of|man
tua|new|jersey|and|they|have|one|son|franklin|lewi|and|dora|who|is
still|in|school
five hundred and fourteen|biograph|histori|of|the|first
the|doctor|is|a|member|of|the|a|o|you|and|is|a|stanch|democrat|in
his|pohtic|view
peter|vax|voorhe
whatev|els|may|be|said|of|the|legal|fratern|it|can|not|be|deni
that|member|of|the|bar|have|been|more|import|actor|in|public|aftair
than|ani|other|class|of|american|peopl|the|lawyer|stand|as|the|pro
tector|of|the|right|and|liberti|of|his|fellow|men|and|is|the|repres
of|a|profess|whose|follow|if|they|would|gain|honor|fame|and|success
must|be|men|of|merit|and|abil|such|a|one|is|mr|van|voorhe|who
is|now|serv|as|the|judg|of|the|court|of|error|and|appeal|win
high|commend|bj|his|fair|and|imparti|administr|of|justic
the|judg|was|bom|in|north|brunswick|township|near|new|brun
wick|middlesex|counti|new|jersey|june|i8|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|is|a|son|of|john
s|and|sarah|s|van|doren|voorhe|on|both|side|he|is|of|holland
descent|and|is|connect|with|one|of|the|oldest|and|most|promin|famili
of|new|jersey|on|the|patern|side|he|trace|his|ancestr|back|to|count
albert|van|xoorhe|whose|son|stephen|coert|van|voorhe|was|the
founder|of|the|famili|in|america|have|emigr|from|holland|in|april
one thousand, six hundred and sixty
dure|his|boyhood|judg|voorhe|attend|the|grammar|school|of
new|brunswick|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|enter|rutger|colleg|where|he|was|gradu
ate|with|the|degre|of|ab|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|receiv|the|degre|of|am|three
year|later|he|commenc|the|studi|of|law|with|peter|l|voorhe|of
camden|and|was|admit|to|the|new|jersey|bar|as|an|attorney|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|and
as|a|counsellor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|was|then|associ|in|practic|with|his|pre
ceptor|until|the|latter|s|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|a|period|of|near|twenti|year
today|the|judg|is|one|of|the|ablest|member|of|the|camden|bar|and
dure|his|profession|life|has|alway|enjoy|the|respect|and|confid
of|not|onli|his|fellow|lawyer|but|also|of|the|public|he|has|made|a
specialti|of|railroad|and|corpor|law|in|which|he|is|well|vers|and
in|these|line|has|gain|a|most|enviabl|reput|he|has|also|been
conspicu|in|other|depart|of|the|profess|he|is|a|lawjer|of
the|highest|rank|and|a|most|persuas|and|power|advoc|on|the
6th|of|march|one thousand, nine hundred|he|was|appoint|judg|of|the|court|of|error|and
appeal|succeed|judg|nixon|who|resign|and|is|now|most|credit
fill|that|oflfic|in|busi|affair|the|judg|has|also|met|with|success
and|is|today|a|director|of|the|camden|deposit|trust|compani|of|the
first|nation|bank|of|camden|and|of|the|west|jersev|titl|guarante
t|vrf
ty|fqfairt
coxgressiox|district|of|xeiv|jersey|five hundred and fifteen
compani|he|is|also|one|of|the|manag|of|the|cooper|hospit|a
truste|of|tlie|cooper|estat|and|a|vestryman|of|st|paul|s|episcop
church|of|camden|and|he|take|quit|an|activ|interest|in|public|affair
on|the|2ist|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|judg|voorhe|was|unit|in|marriag|with
miss|louisa|c|dayton|a|daughter|of|jame|b|and|louisa|clark|dayton
of|camden
sheppard|harri
sheppard|harri|was|born|in|salem|counti|new|jersey|septemb|twenty-two
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|a|son|of|sila|and|elizabeth|ireland|harri|both|of|whom|were
nativ|of|this|counti|the|patern|grandfath|was|sheppard|harri|and
the|matern|grandfath|benjamin|ireland|and|both|repres|old|fami
lie|of|this|counti|the|father|of|our|subject|was|engag|in|farm|until
one hundred and eighty-five|one|when|he|began|the|manufactur|of|lumber|oper|a|sawmil|for
some|time|at|penn|grove|new|jersey|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|at|the|age
of|sixtyeight|year|and|his|widow|surviv|till|one thousand, nine hundred|pass|the|eighti
third|mileston|on|life|s|journey|in|their|famili|were|five|children|name
benjamin|i|sheppard|mari|w|anni|e|and|harriet|r
sheppard|harri|spent|the|first|thirteen|year|of|his|life|on|a|farm|in
lower|alloway|creek|township|and|for|seven|year|thereaft|was|a|resid
of|penn|grove|but|sinc|his|twentyfirst|year|his|home|has|been|in|salem
he|attend|the|friend|school|of|this|citi|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|began|teach
which|profess|he|follow|for|five|year|with|excel|success|he|after
ward|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|brush|for|a|short|time|and|subs
quentli|was|in|the|groceri|and|butcher|busi|in|which|he|continu
until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|sinc|which|time|he|has|been|in|the|offic|of|the|south|jersey
man
mr|harri|has|long|been|recogn|as|one|of|the|lead|and|representa
tive|citizen|of|his|communiti|and|has|taken|an|activ|part|in|mani|move
ment|and|measur|which|have|contribut|to|the|public|good|he|was|on
the|elect|board|for|sever|year|and|for|ten|year|was|the|secretari|of|the
salem|board|of|educ|the|school|system|has|ever|found|in|him|a|warm
friend|and|dure|his|incumb|he|gave|his|activ|support|toward|the
erect|of|the|new|walnut|street|school|and|toward|the|advanc|of
everi|measur|that|he|believ|would|promot|the|educ|interest|of
the|citi|dure|his|interv|of|teach|in|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|he|accept|a
posit|as|clerk|in|a|general|store|at|bridgeport|with|a|a|jordan|for|a
short|time|spiritu|liquor|were|sold|at|that|time|in|all|such|store
ostens|for|medicin|purpos|but|realli|as|a|beverag|dure|his|short
5i6|biograph|histori|of|the|first
stay|with|mr|jordan|he|succeed|in|effectu|persuad|him|to|discon
tinu|the|traffic|much|to|the|satisfact|of|the|christian|communit
twelv|year|later|he|was|the|bookkeep|for|p|s|hill|compani|in
paschallvill|who|had|a|larg|general|stoce|with|a|lumberyard|stone|quarri
brickyard|etc|do|a|larg|busi|spiritu|liquor|were|larg|sold
in|them|also|much|to|his|disgust|twelv|year|later|he|had|a|similar|exp
rienc|with|the|same|success|with|p|s|hill|compani|of|paschallvill
pennsylvania|who|had|a|larg|general|store|lumberyard|brickyard|and
stone|quarri|for|whom|he|was|a|bookkeep|he|was|the|first|to|advoc
the|teach|of|music|in|the|public|school|in|salem|and|which|has|sinc
prove|to|be|a|good|thing|he|hold|membership|in|the|first|methodist
episcop|church|has|serv|as|a|member|of|it|ofifici|board|and|was|a
member|of|it|build|committe|dure|the|erect|of|the|new|church|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|social|he|is|connect|with|fenwick|lodg|no|one hundred and sixty-four|i|o|o|f
salem|lodg|no|thirty-seven|a|o|you|w|salem|conclav|l|o|h|salem|di
vision|of|the|son|of|temper|and|the|good|templar|societi|dure
their|exist|in|salem|in|church|and|temper|work|he|take|a|veri
activ|interest|and|for|a|long|period|has|serv|as|a|teacher|in|the|sunday
school|he|withhold|his|support|from|no|movement|or|measur|which
he|believ|will|promot|the|public|welfar|and|uplift|human|and|his|labor
have|been|product|of|great|good
li|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|harri|and|miss|sarah|casperson
of|pennvill|a|daughter|of|john|and|elizabeth|power|casperson|both
repres|of|promin|famili|of|salem|counti|new|jersey|she
was|born|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|and|by|her|marriag|has|becom|the|mother|of
five|children|s|virginia|who|die|at|the|age|of|twentytwo|year|william
h|the|editor|of|the|south|jerseyman|mari|c|the|wife|of|john|e
zaiser|of|salem|albert|c|who|is|employ|as|a|salesman|in|a|groceri|store
in|atlant|citi|new|jersey|and|frank|s|who|is|connect|with|the
south|jerseyman|in|all|life|s|relat|mr|harri|has|been|found|honor
abl|and|straightforward|and|has|ever|command|the|respect|and|confid
of|all|with|whom|he|has|been|associ|his|record|is|inde|worthi|of
emul|and|he|well|deserv|mention|in|this|volum
h|c|thompson
there|are|alway|men|in|everi|communiti|who|by|reason|of|strong|in
dividu|and|superior|abil|occupi|a|lead|posit|in|busi|circl
and|public|affair|and|yet|who|in|manner|are|unostentati|make|no
claim|upon|pulil|favor|such|a|one|is|mr|thompson|true|merit|how
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventeen
ever|can|not|be|obscur|and|is|bound|to|win|recognit|for|the|public|is
a|discrimin|factor|and|bestow|it|sincer|regard|onli|where|it|is|de
serv|mr|thompson|is|promin|connect|with|the|busi|affair
of|cape|may|as|cashier|and|agent|of|the|new|jersey|trust|safeti|deposit
compani|and|is|a|reliabl|and|progress|busi|man|whose|success|in
life|is|due|entir|to|his|own|effort
a|nativ|of|this|citi|he|was|born|octob|thirty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|his|parent|be
richard|r|and|anna|s|hand|thompson|his|patern|grandfath|rich
ardson|thompson|sr|was|born|in|washington|d|c|acquir|a|liber
educ|and|learn|the|tailor|s|trade|later|be|a|member|of|the|firm|of
tuck|thompson|proprietor|of|the|lead|tailor|establish|of|the
capit|citi|receiv|the|patronag|of|the|most|promin|peopl|of|wash
ington|he|was|also|a|local|minist|of|the|methodist|episcop|church
and|was|one|of|the|founder|of|the|wesley|chapel|at|the|corner|of|fifth|and
f|street|where|mani|of|the|distinguish|statesmen|of|the|nation|worship
he|was|veri|liber|and|generous|with|his|mean|in|church|organ|and
to|chariti|and|withheld|his|support|from|no|movement|which|he|believ
would|uplift|and|benefit|mankind|his|last|day|were|spent|in|washington
where|he|was|held|in|highest|regard|have|the|warm|friendship|of|mani
of|the|most|note|men|of|the|countri|in|his|day
one|of|his|children|was|john|who|was|in|the|govern|employ|in
washington|dure|the|civil|war|he|serv|in|the|union|armi|with|an
ohio|regiment|and|particip|in|a|number|of|the|import|engag
and|was|wound|in|the|battl|of|shiloh|and|also|have|a|son|kill|at|his
side|after|his|return|he|occupi|a|posit|in|the|unit|state|treasuri
and|audit|depart|and|at|one|time|was|the|editor|of|a|paper|in|the
west|but|spent|his|last|day|in|the|capit|citi|wesley|the|second|of|the
famili|held|a|public|posit|in|one|of|the|government|depart|and
die|in|baltimor|he|had|a|son|who|was|kill|in|the|battl|of|shiloh
richard|the|father|of|our|subject|was|the|next|of|the|famili|bell|becam
the|wife|of|richard|cooney|of|the|treasuri|depart|of|washington
d|c|and|their|son|thoma|marri|a|niec|of|presid|mckinley|laura
becam|the|wife|of|walter|illiam|a|promin|citizen|of|washington
darbi|never|marri|sarah|marri|a|mr|connelli|who|was|a|wealthi
slavehold|of|maryland|and|resid|in|washington|mari|becam|the
wife|of|frank|espey|who|was|employ|in|the|govern|servic|in|ash
ington
richard|thompson|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|petersbyrg
virginia|and|at|the|age|of|fourteen|left|school|and|enter|upon|his|busi
career|for|mani|year|he|was|engag|in|the|hotel|busi|and|in|this
5i8|biograph|histori|of|the|first
connect|l|ecam|wide|known|tliroughout|tlie|countri|befor|the|war
he|was|associ|with|colonel|john|west|as|the|proprietor|of|the|congress
hall|hotel|at|cape|may|and|dure|the|hostil|between|the|north|and|the
south|he|was|the|manag|of|the|metropolitan|hotel|in|washington|sub
sequentl|he|conduct|the|owen|hous|in|washington|d|c|the|ban
croft|hous|in|new|york|citi|and|the|kimbal|hous|in|atlanta|georgia
he|then|return|to|cape|may|where|the|residu|of|his|day|was|pass
he|gave|his|polit|support|to|the|democrat|parti|and|serv|as|a|mem
ber|of|the|citi|council|but|never|sought|polit|prefer|he|is|a|promi
nent|imason|and|was|one|of|the|first|member|of|cape|island|lodg|no|thirty-seven
a|f|a|m|he|also|belong|to|the|presbyterian|church|and|was|a|man
who|receiv|and|merit|the|regard|and|confid|of|all|with|whom|he
came|in|contact|and|his|acquaint|was|veri|wide|his|children|were
eight|in|luunber|henri|c|be|the|eldest|richard|h|the|second|is
engag|in|busi|in|new|york|citi|marri|sadi|martin|and|they|have
two|children|georg|and|richard|jourdan|m|marri|may|clement|a
daughter|of|rev|clement|and|is|engag|in|busi|in|philadelphia
john|is|the|next|of|the|famili|samuel|b|is|now|deceas|william|h
now|resid|at|cape|may|in|charg|of|the|stockton|hotel|he|is|marri
and|has|one|child|emili|joseph|l|of|philadelphia|marri|emili|wilder
muth|and|has|two|children|albert|and|russel|anni|the|youngest|of
the|famili|die|in|childhood|the|father|of|this|famili|die|at|the|age|of
fiftyf|year|and|the|mother|when|about|fiftythre|year|of|age
henri|c|thompson|have|acquir|his|preliminari|educ|in|the
public|school|of|cape|may|supplement|that|cours|by|studi|in|gon
zaga|colleg|in|washington|d|c|one|of|the|lead|school|of|that|citi
he|enter|upon|his|busi|career|in|the|capac|of|a|clerk|and|subs
quentli|was|employ|as|a|bookkeep|on|the|5th|of|juli|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|was
made|the|cashier|and|agent|of|the|new|jersey|trust|safeti|deposit|com
pani|at|cape|may|this|enterpris|was|organ|in|that|year|and|is|sup
pli|wit|all|bank|facil|the|success|of|the|undertak|is|due|to|mr
thompson|whose|power|of|manag|and|execut|al|iliti|have|been
the|factor|that|have|secur|it|prosper
mr|thompson|marri|miss|linda|m|a|daughter|of|dr|jame|f|ken
nedi|for|mani|year|a|promin|physician|at|cape|may|and|a|lead|citi
zen|who|at|various|time|serv|as|an|alderman|his|father|was|jame
schelling|kennedi|who|made|his|home|in|philadelphia|but|was|a|captain
of|a|vessel|and|was|lost|at|sea|dr|kennedi|marri|charlott|swain|and
their|children|were|henri|a|who|graduat|at|the|jefferson|medic
colleg|and|is|a|physician|at|cape|may|jame|who|die|at|the|age|of
congression|district|of|neiv|jersey|5i9
about|fifteen|year|and|mrs|thompson|her|father|was|a|veri|promin
church|vorker|and|was|one|of|the|founder|of|the|presbyterian|church|at
this|place|his|life|was|a|busi|use|and|honor|one|and|the|respect
which|is|uniform|accord|to|true|worth|was|given|him
unto|mr|and|mrs|thompson|have|been|born|four|children|anna|b
charlott|k|eleanor|h|and|richard|r|the|eldest|daughter|is|now|a
pupil|of|miss|whinneri|of|philadelphia|and|is|a|fine|vocalist|charlott
k|has|except|talent|as|a|pianist|and|has|studi|under|the|famous
richard|zeckwer|of|philadelphia|the|daughter|eleanor|also|has|a|fine
cultiv|voic|and|is|mani|time|solicit|to|aid|in|entertain|given|in
the|citi|mrs|thompson|also|possess|superior|music|abil|and|for
manv|xear|engag|in|teach|her|art|in|cape|may|the|talent|of|the
famiivin|this|regard|make|their|home|particular|attract|and|the
thompson|household|is|the|center|of|the|cultur|societi|circl
in|his|polit|view|mr|thompson|is|independ|he|has|serv|as
citi|record|and|was|superintend|of|the|waterwork|for|eight|year|he
is|also|a|member|of|the|improv|order|of|heptasoph|and|was|former|a
member|of|the|sixth|regiment|of|the|new|jersey|nation|guard|hold
ing|a|membership|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|is|deepli|interest
init|growth|and|upbuild|and|has|serv|as|a|classlead|thus|in|the
various|avenu|of|life|he|is|found|identifi|with|the|interest|which|tend|to
improv|social|materi|intellectu|and|moralhf|and|cape|may|number
him|among|it|most|progress|and|valuabl|citizen
philip|b|parker
philip|baker|parker|who|is|one|of|the|retir|farmer|of|woolwich|town
ship|gloucest|countv|was|born|in|gibbstown|new|jersey|novemb|twenty-six
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|and|is|a|son|of|charl|and|elizabeth|baker|parker|the|former|die
in|paulsboro|new|jersey|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|the|latter|is|still|live|in
that|citi|our|subject|s|greatgrandfath|came|from|england|at|a|veri|earli
date|probabl|befor|therevolutionari|war|and|settl|in|new|jersey|the
grandfath|was|thoma|parker|and|the|children|of|his|famili|were|as|fol
tow|charl|marv|who|marri|john|lock|now|deceas|of|paul
boro|martha|who|marri|jame|clark|of|bridgeport|new|jersey|and
both|are|deceas|maria|who|marri|georg|myer|of|asbur|new|jer
sey|and|both|are|deceas|john|who|die|when|a|young|man|and|eliza
who|die|when|young|in|the|parent|famili|were|the|follow|children
thoma|who|marri|hester|stephen|two|children|were|born|to|them
lewi|and|anna|lizzi|thoma|die|when|thirtynin|year|of|age|philip
five hundred and twenty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
baker|ellen|marri|william|wingat|deceas|of|northeast|maryland
and|live|in|paulsboro|three|children|were|born|to|them|charl|mari
ella|and|walter|charl|marri|anna|cowgil|deceas|one|child|was
born|to|them|emma|he|is|a|retir|farmer|and|resid|in|paulsboro
sarah|marri|jame|henri|hewitt|of|thorofar|one|child|was|born|to
them|harri|archer|they|resid|in|camden|mari|elizabeth|john|mar
rie|mrs|ray|reynold|of|philadelphia|and|they|had|one|child|ralph
john|is|a|basketmanufactur|and|resid|in|paulsboro|and|anna|marri
joseph|lodg|of|thorofar|and|resid|in|paulsboro
philip|b|parker|was|for|sever|year|associ|with|his|father|in|the
truck|busi|and|later|move|to|a|farm|in|woolwich|township|near
where|he|now|live|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|purchas|his|present|place|of|one|hundr
and|six|acr|and|was|engag|in|it|cultiv|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|when|he|retir
from|activ|work|the|marriag|of|philip|b|parker|and|henrietta|d|low
took|place|june|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|she|is|a|daughter|of|benjamin|and|ehzabeth
piatt|low|mrs|low|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|and|mr|low|make|his|home|with
mrs|parker|three|children|have|been|born|to|our|subject|and|wife|liz
zie|who|marri|samuel|lamson|of|repaupo|januari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|and|had|one
child|philip|parker|she|die|when|twentysix|year|old|harri|who|die
at|the|age|of|eight|year|and|clara|who|marri|clifton|ashton|of|swede
boro|decemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|has|one|child|harri|archer
mr|parker|and|his|wife|are|member|of|the|methodist|episcop|church
of|swedesboro|social|he|is|a|member|of|the|knight|of|pythia|the
unit|workmen|and|the|grang|in|polit|he|adher|to|the|principl|of
the|prohibit|parti|and|in|all|thing|endeavor|to|do|his|duti|as|a|citizen
j|charl|righter
there|is|a|vast|field|open|to|those|who|care|to|enter|commerci|life
in|militari|and|polit|circl|there|is|but|littl|opportun|to|gain|lead
posit|but|in|the|world|of|trade|one|may|reach|a|place|of|promin
and|exert|a|wide|influenc|on|the|affair|which|afifect|the|materi|pros
periti|of|the|communiti|the|develop|growth|and|progress|of|everi
town|and|citi|depend|upon|it|commerci|activ|and|the|lead|mer
chant|are|those|to|whom|is|due|the|advanc|of|the|municip|corpora
tion|which|they|repres|ir|righter|is|activ|connect|with|the
busi|interest|of|salem|as|a|wholesal|and|retail|dealer|in|hardwar|and
oil|and|as|he|has|a|wide|acquaint|this|sketch|will|constitut|a|sourc
of|interest|to|mani|of|the|reader|of|this|volum
mr|righter|s|greatgrandfath|john|righter|was|a|nativ|of|hess
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and twenty-one
germani|whenc|he|came|to|america|earli|in|the|eighteenth|centuri
setthng|at|mill|creek|in|lower|marion|township|pennsylvania|he|was
an|extens|landown|and|own|and|oper|sever|paper|and|flour
mill|in|that|vicin|and|becam|a|promin|and|wealthi|citizen|he
possess|great|forc|of|charact|and|exert|a|strong|influenc|for|good
in|the|communiti|his|first|wife|was|a|quaker|ladi|name|lever
john|righter|adopt|the|languag|and|dress|of|the|friend|though|he
never|becam|a|member|of|the|societi|his|second|wife|was|jane|mcfee
a|member|of|the|baptist|church|he|live|to|be|almost|a|centenarian|and
is|buri|in|the|baptist|church|yard|at|bryn|mawr|pennsylvania|there
were|sever|childien|of|the|second|marriag|one|of|them|be|john
righter|jr|the|grandfath|of|the|subject|of|this|sketch|he|marri
eupheniia|wilson|a|ladi|of|the|presbyterian|faith|whose|father|lieuten
william|w|wilson|was|a|member|of|the|same|jmason|lodg|that|general
washington|was|connect|with|and|which|the|latter|visit|john
righter|the|second|was|associ|in|busi|with|his|father|and|show
great|execut|abil|but|die|at|the|earli|age|of|twentynin|though
not|befor|he|had|becom|a|promin|and|influenti|man|his|widow
live|until|she|had|pass|the|age|of|fourscor|year|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|unto
john|and|euphemia|righter|were|born|three|children|jane|who|marri
dr|mckay|william|a|practic|physician|first|in|berwick|and|after
ward|in|mauch|chunk|pennsylvania|and|john|w|the|father|of|our|subject
john|w|righter|the|third|of|that|name|was|born|in|lower|marion
township|montgomeri|counti|pennsylvania|in|eighteen|nineteen|and|receiv|his
educ|in|a|privat|school|in|that|state|he|too|had|a|like|for|the
mill|busi|own|and|oper|a|mill|in|butler|valley|luzern
counti|pennsylvania|and|also|powder|and|saw|mill|elsewher|he|resid
in|beaver|meadow|carbon|counti|pennsylvania|and|in|the|midst|of|a
prosper|busi|career|was|sudden|stricken|by|death|die|at|the
age|of|thirtysix|in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|he|was|marri|to|margaretta|wood
nutt|hall|who|still|surviv|him|be|a|pleasant|cheeri|ladi|of|eightyf
year|they|were|the|parent|of|four|children|elizabeth|woodnutt|jame
hall|connect|with|the|hardwar|busi|in|philadelphia|who|marri
hannah|gamewel|and|of|their|children|but|one|margaret|woodnutt|is
live|william|woodnutt|engag|in|silvermin|in|mexico|and|john
charl|our|subject|john|righter|was|a|democrat|and|gave|valuabl|aid
toward|seat|asa|packer|in|congress|he|was|a|promin|member|of
the|mason|and|odd|fellow|lodg|was|a|good|upright|man|generous
and|forbear|in|disposit|and|will|long|be|rememb|by|those|who
knew|him|for|his|mani|worthi|qualiti
five hundred and twenty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
on|the|matern|side|mr|righter|is|descend|from|equal|honor
parentag|trace|his|ancestri|back|to|some|of|the|oldest|famili|in|the
countri|in|the|year|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-seven|william|hall|came|to|this|countri|with|other
member|of|the|fenwick|coloni|he|is|call|in|the|list|of|emigr|a
servant|but|view|in|the|light|of|subsequ|event|this|can|scarc
have|been|correct|or|if|so|william|hall|must|have|been|a|man|of|un
common|abil|to|rise|from|such|a|humbl|posit|to|becom|in|the|cours
of|a|few|year|record|burgess|judg|and|what|was|of|still|greater|i|am
portanc|a|member|of|the|governor|s|council|he|was|an|extens|land
owner|and|establish|the|first|store|in|salem|he|belong|to|the|societi
of|friend|which|religi|organ|was|then|great|persecut|in
england|it|member|be|depriv|of|their|properti|and|liberti|until
thev|were|glad|to|leav|the|countri|on|ani|term|those|who|had|lost
their|monev|were|oblig|to|borrow|from|those|in|better|circumst|in
order|to|pav|their|passag|repay|it|by|some|sort|of|servic|on|their
arriv|such|were|class|under|the|general|term|of|servant|yet|mani
of|them|becam|emin|citizen|william|hall|was|marri|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|to
elizabeth|pyle|whose|famili|name|was|given|to|the|township|of|pile
grove|she|die|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-nine|leav|sever|children|and|in|one thousand, seven hundred|william
hall|marri|sarah|clement|and|from|their|three|son|william|qement
and|nathaniel|the|various|branch|of|the|hall|famili|in|southern|new
jersey|are|descend|sarah|clement|was|a|granddaught|of|gregori
clement|one|of|the|regicid|judg|of|charl|i|who|sufif|under
charl|h|the|aw|penalti|for|treason|as|the|offens|was|term
judg|hall|die|about|one thousand, seven hundred and thirteen|and|his|wife|surviv|him|sever|year
manag|her|larg|estat|with|excel|judgment|her|husband|leav
all|his|properti|both|real|and|person|to|his|belov|wife|sarah|hall
clement|hall|the|second|son|marri|and|settl|in|delawar|and|there
are|some|of|his|descend|in|the|acton|famili|that|bear|the|name|at|the
present|time
nathaniel|hall|a|son|of|edward|hall|was|an|offic|in|the|revolu
tionari|armi|and|won|the|titl|of|colonel|his|third|wife|was|nanci|darrah
and|he|was|her|third|husband|her|mother|was|lydia|darrah|of|revo
lutionari|fame|who|was|instrument|in|save|the|american|armi|from
destruct|at|germantown|on|one|occas|she|fasten|a|sword|on
the|back|of|her|daughter|ann|underneath|her|cloth|and|sent|her|to
convey|the|weapon|to|her|son|who|was|in|washington|s|armi|it|was
necessari|to|pass|through|the|british|line|in|order|to|reach|her|destina
tion|and|when|the|young|girl|appli|to|one|of|the|ofific|for|the|requisit
permiss|he|gave|it|say|you|are|too|pretti|to|go|to|the|rebel|armi
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and twenty-three
the|hand|almost|rest|on|the|sword|and|had|the|weapon|lieen|discov
it|would|probabl|have|gone|hard|with|the|littl|maiden|the|james
the|miller|and|other|salem|famili|are|descend|from|nathaniel|hall
judg|hall|s|eldest|son|william|hall|jr|marri|elizabeth|smith|of
ambleburi|their|eldest|son|clement|was|marri|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight|to|margaret
a|daughter|of|joseph|morri|of|elsinboro|a|granddaught|of|hedro|or
ruthera|morri|who|came|from|pembrokeshir|wale|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-three|the
children|of|clement|and|margaret|morri|hall|were|ann|sarah|clement
john|joseph|morri|and|margaret|clement|hall|die|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-two|his|wife
surviv|him|ten|year|and|the|abil|with|which|she|manag|her
properti|indic|that|she|had|great|busi|talent|margaret|morri
hall|was|a|granddaught|of|man|braithwait|gentleman|and|a|great
granddaught|of|william|and|joan|le|fevr|braithwait|the|le
fevr|were|a|huguenot|famili|driven|from|franc|by|the|revoc|of
the|edict|of|nant|by|loui|xiv|they|settl|in|england|and|afterward
came|to|new|jersey|a|short|time|previous|john|fenwick|had|pur
chase|a|larg|tract|of|land|and|a|portion|of|this|he|sold|to|the|le|fevr
famili|hypolit|le|fevr|gentleman|and|his|son|hypolit|were|the
first|of|the|name|to|locat|in|new|jersey|ann|le|fevr|was|first|marri
to|john|worlidg|a|promin|member|of|the|fenwick|coloni|and|after
his|death|to|william|braithwait|jr|hypolit|le|fevr|jr|marri
hannah|carll|of|philadelphia|and|settl|in|delawar|the|origin|will
of|joan|braithwait|written|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-nine|is|now|in|the|possess|of|one|of
her|descend|of|the|sixth|generat|and|is|veri|quaint|it|read
in|the|name|of|god|amen|i|joan|braithwait|of|ye|counti|of
salem|in|ye|provinc|of|est|jersey|widdow|be|sick|and|weak|of
bodi|but|of|perfect|senc|and|memori|prais|be|to|god|doo|make|and
ordain|this|my|last|will|and|testament|etc|first|i|give|and|bequeath
my|soul|into|ye|hand|of|almighti|god|that|gave|it|me|hope|through
his|merci|and|ye|meritt|of|ye|saiour|jesus|christ|to|receiv|pardon|of
my|sin|i|give|my|bodi|to|ye|earth|hope|a|joyful|resurrect|of|ye
same|and|desir|ye|it|may|be|decent|buri|att|ye|discret|of|mv
executor|hereaft|name
she|gave|to|her|stepson|or|as|he|was|call|in|those|day|soninlaw
william|braithwait|among|other|thing|three|gold|ring|that|is|to|say
a|wed|ring|a|plain|ring|and|a|stone|ring|also|one|silver|seall|cut
thereon|a|wound|hart|i|will|give|and|bequeath|unto|my|son|man
ning|braithwait|ye|hous|and|plantat|whereon|i|now|dwelleth
togeth|with|all|ye|land|thereunto|belong|etc|it|is|seal|with|the
five hundred and twenty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
abov|mention|wound|liart|on|this|four|and|twentiet|day|of
januari|m|one|thousand|six|hundr|and|ninetyseven
clement|hall|jr|a|son|of|clement|and|margaret|iiorri|hall|was
marri|about|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|to|rebecca|a|daughter|of|joseph|and|ann|kay|nf
gloucest|counti|their|children|were|name|as|follo|ann|the|eldest
marri|samuel|n|tliompson|and|their|children|were|samuel|joshua
isaac|sarah|ann|and|clement|margaret|morri|marri|john|holm|and
their|children|were|benjamin|jane|and|carolin|the|latter|die|in|child
hood|morri|marri|elizabeth|woodnutt|and|had|four|children|who|live
to|matur|prudenc|hall|becam|the|wife|of|joseph|ogden|sarah|die
unmarri|deborah|kay|marri|samuel|d|ingham|of|pennsylvania|for
his|second|wife|and|their|children|were|eliza|rebecca|william|armstrong
and|mari|louisa|rebecca|kay|becam|the|second|wife|of|john|sinnick
son|and|their|children|are|john|howard|mari|elizabeth|and|clement
hall|morri|hall|the|onli|son|of|clement|and|rebecca|kay|hall|and
a|lineal|descend|of|william|and|joan|braithwait|of|william|and|sarah
clement|hall|and|of|ruthera|and|jael|bati|morri|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-seven
in|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|he|marri|elizabeth|a|daughter|of|jame|mason|and|margaret
carpent|woodnutt|she|was|born|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|elizabeth|woodnutt
hall|was|fifth|in|the|line|of|descent|from|thoma|lloyd|deputi|governor
of|pennsylvania|and|fourth|in|descent|from|samuel|carpent|both|veri
emin|men|in|the|pennsylvania|coloni|samuel|carpent|own|prop
erti|in|elsinboro|and|other|part|of|western|new|jersey
a|larg|number|of|children|were|born|to|morri|and|elizabeth|hall
but|onli|four|reach|year|of|matur|of|these|margaret|woodnutt
hall|marri|john|w|righter|jame|woodnutt|hall|marri|first|mari
jarman|and|afterward|catherin|mulford|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|hannah|acton
hall|and|rebecca|kay|never|marri|elizabeth|w|hall|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-two
and|morri|hall|rent|his|farm|in|mannington|and|remov|with|his|two
elder|children|to|beaver|meadow|in|the|center|of|the|anthracit|coal
mine|district|of|pennsylvania|from|that|time|until|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-nine
he|was|the|secretari|and|treasur|of|the|beaver|meadow|coal|compani
morri|hall|was|veri|fond|of|book|and|read|extens|have|an|ex
cellent|memori|of|what|he|read|he|would|often|forget|what|was|said|to
him|but|seldom|forgot|what|was|in|write|and|it|was|common|said|in
his|ofific|if|you|want|mr|hall|to|rememb|a|thing|you|must|let|him|see
it|in|black|and|white|so|his|employ|were|in|the|habit|of|leav
memoranda|on|his|desk|where|he|would|be|sure|to|see|them
the|two|younger|children|of|the|famili|remain|with|relat|in|salem
and|they|distinct|rememb|be|taken|to|beaver|meadow|to|isit|in
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and twenty-five
earli|childhood|and|the|wonder|and|delight|they|experienc|when|they
saw|mountain|for|the|first|time|their|appreci|of|the|magnific
sceneri|around|mauch|chunk|so|entir|dififer|from|the|flat|and|high
cultiv|countri|about|salem|awaken|their|awe|and|delight|in|a|greater
degre|than|did|the|alp|and|wonder|mountain|and|valley|of|the|tyrol
when|seen|in|later|year|the|coal|mine|too|were|an|unfail|sourc|of
interest|they|consid|it|a|great|pleasur|to|be|carri|by|a|miner|with
a|lamp|in|his|cap|as|far|back|in|the|mine|as|it|was|possibl|to|go|and|to|see
the|tini|lamp|move|about|in|all|direct|twinkl|like|star|in|the
black|of|the|mine
john|charl|righter|our|subject|was|born|in|carbon|counti|penn
sylvania|april|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|and|is|the|son|of|john|wilson|and|margaretta
hall|righter|he|first|attend|the|privat|school|of|salem|enter
henri|ridgeway|s|board|school|at|bordentown|new|jersey|and|then
becam|a|student|in|the|bloomsburg|normal|school|of|pennsylvania|his
first|busi|ventur|was|in|the|coal|busi|at|south|amboy|new
jersey|where|he|remain|two|year|and|then|accept|a|posit|at|the
salem|glass|work|have|determin|to|engag|in|busi|for|him
self|he|open|a|men|s|furnish|hous|which|he|conduct|at|a|profit
for|three|year|and|then|think|greater|advantag|could|be|deriv|from
some|other|line|he|close|out|that|stock|and|embark|in|the|hardwar
and|wholesal|oil|busi|at|the|corner|of|market|and|grant|street|he
also|carri|a|line|of|agricultur|implement|and|has|other|busi|interest
mr|righter|was|marri|april|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|to|miss|mari|carolin|burch
a|daughter|of|charl|e|and|eva|anna|reed|burch|her|father|was
born|in|pennsylvania|and|studi|law|dure|the|civil|war|he|was|made
unit|state|consul|to|cardiff|wale|and|serv|through|three|admini
tration|for|some|year|he|was|connect|with|the|state|depart|of
washington|d|c|but|is|at|present|a|resid|of|philadelphia|he|mar
rie|miss|reed|who|die|june|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|mr|burch|is|still|live|unto
mr|and|mrs|righter|have|been|born|two|son|john|charl|whose|birth
occur|may|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|carrol|burch|born|februari|two|one thousand, nine hundred
mr|righter|is|a|republican|and|is|a|promin|mason|belong|to|the
blue|lodg|chapter|and|commanderi|and|to|lulu|templ|of|the|mystic
shrine|he|is|also|a|promin|odd|fellow|and|a|valu|repres|of
the|knight|of|pythia|junior|order|of|unit|american|mechan|and
the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen|he|belong|to|the|garfield|club
and|is|a|member|of|st|john|s|episcop|church|it|will|thus|be|seen|that
he|is|activ|and|promin|connect|with|various|social|organ
five hundred and twenty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
as|well|as|with|the|busi|interest|of|salem|and|in|all|life|s|relat|he
command|univers|confid|and|respect
john|hammond|coffin
the|subject|of|this|sketch|was|born|in|hamnionton|atlant|counti
march|i6|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|a|son|of|william|and|nanci|bodin|coffin|worth|s
histori|of|devonshir|england|publish|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|speak|of|the|coffin
famili|as|have|been|seat|at|postledg|in|the|parish|of|alwington|oe
onshir|almost|from|the|time|of|the|conquest|and|mention|among|it
mani|men|of|note|sir|william|cofn|master|of|the|hors|at|the|coron
of|ann|boleyn|and|a|promin|particip|in|the|field|of|the|cloth|of
gold|the|founder|of|the|famili|in|america|tristram|coffin|a|nativ|of
brixton|devonshir|england|born|about|one thousand, six hundred and five|settl|in|salisburi|massa
chusett|in|one thousand, six hundred and forty-three|he|afterward|move|to|nantucket|with|one|of|his|son
purchas|oneseventh|of|that|island|where|veri|mani|of|his|poster|still
resid|the|famili|becam|connect|by|marriag|with|the|winslow|famili
descend|of|the|mayflow|pilgrim|and|through|them|with|the|ham
mond|famili
mr|cofifin|s|grandfath|came|to|new|jersey|previous|to|the|revolu
tionari|war|he|settl|in|the|vicin|of|green|bank|burlington|counti
for|the|purpos|of|lumber|in|the|cedar|swamp|and|die|there|at|a|com
parat|earli|age
william|coffin|the|father|of|john|hammond|coffin|was|born|in|green
bank|becam|a|promin|busi|man|and|extens|land|proprietor
was|the|owner|and|first|settler|of|the|villag|of|hammonton|and|winslow
hammonton|be|name|for|his|son|john|hammond|the|subject|of|this
sketch|and|winslow|for|his|youngest|son|edward|inslow|he|was
larg|interest|in|the|manufactur|of|glass|in|each|of|these|town|he
resid|at|hammonton|and|die|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|at|the|age|of|seventi|year
his|wife|nanci|bodin|was|born|at|swage|burlington|counti|her
ancestor|were|french|huguenot|and|were|earli|settler|in|new|jersey
her|father|joel|bodin|was|a|hotel|keeper|at|longacom|now|berlin
and|rear|a|famili|of|five|children|mrs|coffin|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|at|the|age|of
eightyfour|year|she|was|the|mother|of|ten|children|three|of|whom|are
now|live|bodin|john|hammond|and|edward|winslow
john|hammond|was|educ|at|the|academi|at|haddonfield|and|at
an|earli|age|he|becam|interest|with|his|brother|bodin|and|at|a|later
date|with|his|brother|edward|winslow|in|the|manufactur|of|glass|at
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and twenty-seven
hammonton|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|purchas|the|interest|of|the|latter|and|becam
sole|proprietor|of|the|properti|and|busi|subsequ|he|sold|the|real
estat|to|charlott|cushman|after|dispos|of|his|hammonton|properti
mr|cofifin|move|to|philadelphia|and|engag|in|the|real|estat|busi
later|he|move|to|franklinvill|gloucest|counti|continu|in|the
same|busi|he|has|bought|and|sold|mani|larg|tract|of|land|in|south
jersey|and|still|in|his|advanc|age|is|much|interest|in|the|busi
in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|he|was|marri|to|elizabeth|f|dean|daughter|of|john|dean
of|philadelphia|who|is|said|to|have|been|close|connect|with|a|member
of|the|celebr|boston|tea|parti|mrs|coffin|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety
eugen|z|hillegass|md
the|hillegass|famili|is|of|german|origin|but|mani|generat|have
come|and|gone|sinc|it|was|found|in|the|new|world|and|repres
of|the|famili|were|among|the|earli|colonist|of|philadelphia|and|vicin
dure|the|yellow|fever|epidem|which|prevail|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-six|frederick
hillegass|becom|alarm|for|his|love|one|gather|his|household
effect|togeth|and|with|a|team|start|into|the|countri|go|some|dis
tanc|he|took|up|a|larg|tract|of|wood|land|situat|in|what|is|now|known
as|upper|hanov|township|montgomeri|counti|in|the|pioneer|home
which|was|found|in|this|wilder|john|hillegass|the|greatgrandfath
of|the|subject|of|this|memoir|was|born|of|necess|his|vocat|was|agri
cultur|as|he|grew|to|manhood|but|he|was|enterprisin|erect|a|saw
mill|upon|his|farm|and|build|the|first|frame|hous|in|the|vicin|and|later
he|built|a|hemp|mill|and|a|linseedoil|mill|the|latter|was|the|first|mill|of|the
kind|ever|put|up|in|this|counti|and|it|was|continu|oper|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
have|been|reconstruct|in|the|meantim
peter|the|son|of|john|hillegass|and|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was
born|on|a|part|of|the|origin|homestead|taken|up|by|his|grandfath|and
there|he|spent|the|major|portion|of|his|life|he|howev|did|not|confin|his
attent|to|the|till|of|the|soil|but|becam|one|of|the|most|extens|deal
er|in|live|stock|in|that|region|he|also|continu|to|oper|the|linseedoil
factori|that|had|been|establish|by|his|father|and|as|a|result|of|his|excel
busi|enterpris|he|accumul|a|fortun|sever|year|prior|to|his
death|he|retir|and|thenceforth|gave|his|entir|attent|to|look|after|his
larg|invest|and|busi|aftair|his|children|were|four|in|number
dr|john|g|jacob|who|die|when|young|matilda|deceas|formerlv|the
five hundred and twenty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
wife|of|dr|j|g|mensch|of|pennsburg|and|maria|the|wife|of|dr|henri
bobb|a|physician|and|druggist|of|east|greenvill|pennsylvania
the|birth|of|dr|john|g|hillegass|took|place|near|pennsburg|upper
hanov|township|montgomeri|counti|octob|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|he|receiv
his|elementari|educ|at|washington|hall|board|school|at|trapp
pennsylvania|be|a|student|under|professor|rambo|at|differ|time
have|a|strong|desir|to|becom|a|physician|he|enter|the|univers|of
pennsylvania|where|he|was|graduat|in|the|medic|depart|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-nine
he|then|sought|the|experi|which|he|wise|deem|necessari|in|his
futur|labor|by|practic|under|compet|physician|in|the|citi|hospit
of|philadelphia|establish|an|offic|at|pennsburg|he|then|enter|upon
his|life|work|in|earnest|and|for|upward|of|twoscor|year|command|an|ex
treme|larg|and|remun|practic|when|his|son|dr|john|p|hill
gass|took|his|degre|as|doctor|of|medicin|the|elder|practition|fulli|ex
pect|to|turn|over|the|greater|part|of|his|practic|to|the|younger|but|his|old
patient|refus|to|releas|him|and|constant|importun|him|to|treat|them
in|ill|as|he|had|done|for|so|mani|3ear|after|the|death|of|his|father|he
succeed|to|the|old|homestead|and|the|linseedoil|mill|run|the|latter
until|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|he|becam|financi|connect|with|his|brotherin
law|dr|mensch|in|a|lumberyard|flour|feed|and|coal|busi|he|also
built|a|larg|handsom|busi|block|in|pennsburg|and|was|one|of|the
projector|and|organ|of|the|perkiomen|nation|bank|of|east|green
vill|remain|as|a|director|until|his|death|polit|a|democrat|of|no
uncertain|stripe|he|was|the|nomine|of|his|parti|for|the|state|senat|upon
one|occas|but|was|defeat|by|thirtytwo|vote|he|was|a|life|member
of|the|new|goshenhoppen|reform|church|and|was|a|charter|member|and
the|oldest|past|grand|of|pennsburg|lodg|no|four hundred and forty-nine|i|o|o|f|he|de
part|this|life|on|the|5th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|age|seventyon|year|one
month|and|nine|day|he|was|belov|and|high|esteem|by|all|who|knew
him|and|his|worthi|exampl|has|been|and|will|be|an|influenc|for|good|upon
the|communiti|in|which|he|dwelt|for|mani|year|to|come
on|the|26th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|dr|j|g|hillegass|marri|catherin|a
ziegler|a|daughter|of|jess|ziegler|of|salford|station|pennsylvania|she
becam|the|mother|of|ten|children|all|of|whom|she|live|to|behold|occupi
honor|posit|in|the|busi|world|she|preced|her|husband|to|the|grave
her|death|take|place|april|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|when|she|was|three|month|and
twentyfour|day|over|sixtytwo|year|of|age|the|children|are|name|as|fol
low|dr|eugen|z|ida|the|wife|of|dr|john|g|hersch|of|east|green
vill|ella|m|the|wife|of|e|v|hendrick|a|lead|busi|man|of|east
greenvill|pennsvlvania|kati|o|the|wife|of|dr|iiliam|hunsberg|of
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and twenty-nine
pennsburg|mari|l|the|wife|of|jacob|b|esser|the|editor|of|the|kutztown
patriot|of|kutztown|pennsylvania|dr|john|p|who|was|a|veri|promin
and|success|physician|of|philadelphia|and|whose|death|took|place|feb
ruari|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|when|he|lack|but|three|week|of|celebr|his|thirtysec
ond|anniversari|dr|jess|z|a|graduat|of|the|ontario|veterinari|colleg
of|ontario|canada|and|now|a|practition|at|red|hill|pennsylvania
charl|q|a|graduat|of|the|philadelphia|dental|colleg|and|now|locat
in|pennsburg|howard|c|who|after|be|graduat|in|franklin
marshal|colleg|becam|assist|citi|editor|of|the|new|york|journal|and
calvin|m|who|has|had|charg|of|his|father|s|invest|for|sever|year
and|is|a|promis|young|man
the|birth|of|dr|eugen|z|hillegass|occur|on|the|old|famili|estat|in
upper|hanov|township|montgomeri|counti|januari|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|and|like
his|father|he|receiv|his|preliminari|educ|at|washington|hall|board
ing|school|at|trapp|pennsylvania|he|engag|in|teach|for|a|short
time|after|complet|his|studi|and|then|go|to|the|quaker|citi|he
enter|the|colleg|of|pharmaci|be|graduat|there|februari|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four
his|next|step|was|to|engag|in|the|drug|busi|at|seventh|and|oxford
street|philadelphia|in|which|he|was|success|subsequ|he|matricu
late|in|jefferson|medic|colleg|and|was|graduat|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|at|onc
commenc|to|practic|medicin|in|connect|with|manag|his|drug
store|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|sold|out|and|remov|to|aiken|south|carolina|where|he
conduct|a|drug|busi|for|one|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|return|to|the|north
and|sinc|that|time|he|has|been|the|proprietor|of|a|firstclass|pharmaci|in
mantua|also|engag|in|the|practic|of|medicin|as|he|just|deserv|he
enjoy|a|larg|and|remun|busi|and|rank|among|the|lead
physician|of|this|counti
fratern|the|doctor|is|a|member|of|the|legion|red|cross|knight
of|pythia|order|of|sparta|and|the|junior|order|of|unit|american|me
chanic|polit|he|adher|to|the|doctrin|of|the|democrat|parti
while|he|is|in|no|sens|a|seeker|after|public|honor|he|attend|the|re
form|church|and|endeavor|to|do|all|within|his|power|to|advanc|the
becaus|of|righteous
the|marriag|of|dr|hillegass|and|amanda|l|reifsneid|a|daughter|of
john|p|reifsneid|was|solemn|in|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|their|union
is|bless|with|two|son|and|two|daughter|name|harri|s|frank|l
florenc|and|helen|the|famili|resid|in|a|veri|pleasant|attract|home
where|their|numer|friend|are|frequent|entertain|in|a|most|hospit
manner
five hundred and thirty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
john|c|ward
john|c|ward|state|factori|inspector|and|a|high|respect|citizen|of
salem|counti|new|jersey|is|just|entitl|to|more|than|a|pass|notic|in
a|volum|of|this|charact|he|is|a|nativ|of|camden|counti|born|septem
ber|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|his|father|william|h|ward|was|born|in|woodburi|new
jersey|which|was|the|birthplac|of|his|father|william|t|ward|whose
father|was|isaiah|born|in|the|same|counti|and|the|son|of|jame|ward|who
came|from|england|at|an|earli|date|and|bought|a|larg|tract|of|land|this
tract|is|situat|at|and|around|what|is|now|the|present|citi|of|woodburi
extend|thenc|to|what|was|then|known|as|red|bank|a|histor|place|of
revolutionari|time|it|was|held|by|the|ward|famili|for|a|number|of|year
and|was|decre|by|will|to|jame|ward|for|life|at|his|death|to|go|to|his|oldest
male|descend|he|jame|be|of|a|patriot|spirit|sold|his|lifetim
right|and|gave|the|proceed|to|congress|dure|the|tri|time|of|the|revo
lution|and|through|the|legal|inact|of|his|descend|the|famili|becam
disseiz|of|the|properti|he|also|contribut|to|the|success|of|the|revolu
tion|by|purchas|a|cannon|and|plant|it|on|the|shore|of|the|delawar
river|and|fire|on|a|british|vessel|as|it|came|up|the|river|caus|it|maga
zine|to|explod|the|hulk|of|the|vessel|is|at|present|lie|on|the|marsh|on
the|jersey|side|of|the|delawar|river|just|south|of|gloucest
our|subject|s|father|move|to|salem|counti|about|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|previous|to
this|time|he|had|farm|in|camden|counti|he|is|spoken|of|as|a|man|of|up
right|charact|note|for|his|honor|and|honesti|the|golden|rule|was
his|motto|he|was|one|of|the|lead|busi|men|of|pittsgrov|township
be|engag|extens|in|the|ship|and|produc|busi|among
various|piec|of|real|estat|own|by|him|may|be|mention|a|twohundr
andfiftyacr|farm|in|a|high|state|of|cultiv|situat|at|palatin|on
which|he|resid|and|which|is|still|held|by|the|famili|he|die|april|twenty-eight
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|his|wife|was|mari|ann|cook|a|daughter|of|mr|and|mrs|joseph
cook|of|monmouth|counti|new|jersey|and|is|still|live|they|were|the
parent|of|seven|children|william|t|is|deceas|and|six|are|still|live
viz|joseph|t|of|palatin|john|c|our|subject|jame|c|now|the|post
master|of|palatin|mari|e|the|wife|of|r|r|miller|of|bridgeton|c
howard|resid|on|the|old|homestead|at|palatin|and|frank|g|the|junior
member|of|the|firm|of|j|c|ward|and|brother|now|do|a|general|store
busi|at|palatin|the|firm|be|compris|of|himself|and|the|jame|c
ward|abov|mention
our|subject|john|c|ward|attend|the|public|school|of|salem|counti
after|which|he|attend|a|privat|school|at|elmer|new|jersey|he|assist
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and thirty-one
his|father|in|busi|until|the|year|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|when|he|went|to|philadelphia|and
serv|on|the|polic|forc|at|the|centenni|exposit|he|was|the|sergeant
of|the|forc|and|remain|throughout|the|great|fair|the|follow|year|he
return|to|the|employ|of|his|father|and|purchas|a|farm|among|other
properti|interest|held|by|our|subject|may|be|mention|a|one|hundredand
eightyfiveacr|tract|of|land|upon|which|he|resid|and|carri|on|a|general
farm|busi|at|centreton|new|jersey|ir|ward|is|a|stanch|support
of|the|republican|parti|and|has|been|elect|to|import|oilfic|by|this
organ|he|is|now|a|member|of|the|republican|state|committe|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|and|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|he|serv|in|the|state|legislatur|and|in|one hundred and eighty-nine thousand, four hundred and fifty-six|serv|in
the|state|senat|at|the|end|of|the|last|term|of|his|senatorship|he|was|ap
point|by|the|governor|as|the|factori|inspector|for|a|term|of|five|year
of|mr|ward|s|domest|relat|let|it|be|said|that|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|he|was|mar
rie|to|lizzi|allen|a|daughter|of|mr|and|mrs|charl|zllen|of|this|section
of|the|state|two|children|bless|their|union|rosco|conkl|a|law|stu
dent|at|bridgeton|and|c|harri|at|home
he|of|whom|we|write|is|a|man|possess|a|fine|physiqu|and|is|admir
by|a|larg|compani|of|follow|who|prize|him|for|his|mani|man|deed|and
his|genial|deport|as|a|citizen|and|officehold|to|be|favor|by|an
appoint|by|governor|grigg|to|so|import|a|place|in|the|conimon
uealth|inde|speak|enough|for|his|public|stand|in|new|jersey|he
belong|to|the|mason|fratern|be|one|of|the|truste|of|this|great
order|and|he|also|belong|to|the|order|of|american|red|men|in|which|he|is
promin
the|ogden|famili
the|first|american|ancestor|of|this|famili|david|ogden|was|born|in
england|februari|i|one thousand, six hundred and fifty-five|came|to|america|with|penn|in|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|locat|in
philadelphia|and|later|settl|in|delawar|counti|pennsylvania|he|mar
rie|martha|a|daughter|of|john|houlston|by|whom|he|had|children|name
jonathan|matthia|sarah|nehemiah|samuel|john|aaron|hannah|and
stephen|the|fifth|child|samuel|born|octob|thirty|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-five|die|novemb
ii|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-seven|marri|ester|lown|and|die|leav|the|follow|name|chil
dren|david|jane|mari|groworth|jonathan|howard|sarah|jame|john
and|samuel|of|these|samuel|born|in|delawar|counti|pennsylvania|may
eight|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-five|and|die|april|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-one|came|to|new|jersey|as|a|journeyman|tan
ner|and|about|one thousand, seven hundred and sixty-seven|ran|a|tanneri|where|the|ogden|farm|now|is|he|mar
rie|mari|ann|a|daughter|of|john|hoffman|by|whom|he|had|ten|children
marv|esther|joseph|martha|hannah|ann|sarah|samuel|john|and
five hundred and thirty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
david|joseph|ogden|the|third|child|and|first|son|born|on|the|farm|august
four|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-five|and|die|decemb|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|marri|sybyl|tatum|and|had|as|chil
dren|david|samuel|elizabeth|john|mari|and|ann|the|oldest|child|david
born|februari|three|one thousand, eight hundred and two|receiv|a|good|educ|learn|mine|and|fol
low|it|until|one|eighty-four|one|and|then|settl|upon|a|farm|was|a|success|man|of
affair|a|whig|in|pohtic|command|a|wide|influenc|and|repres|his
counti|in|the|legislatur|for|two|year|he|marri|beulah|p|a|daughter
of|samuel|hancock|and|their|children|were|anna|clarkson|and|beulah
clarkson|ogden|the|son|of|david|ogden|and|beulah|hancock|was|born
june|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|educ|in|the|public|school|the|friend|school|at|west
town|board|school|and|at|a|privat|school|in|wilmington|at|twenti
two|year|of|age|he|was|for|a|brief|time|in|the|sashandblind|busi|later
he|dealt|in|coal|and|wood|up|to|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|then|settl|upon|the|home|farm|and
lia|sinc|taken|an|activ|interest|in|polit
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-one|he|was|marri|to|lydia|a|daughter|of|charl|rich
ard|of|wilmington|delawar|mrs|ogden|by|whom|he|had|no|children
die|januari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|mr|ogden|was|rnarri|a|second|time|novemb|three
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|to|ella|f|a|daughter|of|edward|webb|of|new|castl|counti|dela
ware
camden
in|prepar|the|histori|of|camden|the|writer|has|copi|freeli|from|a
pamphlet|call|some|account|of|camden|s|rise|and|growth|by|how
ard|i|cooper|and|herewith|grate|acknowledg|his|indebted|to
mr|cooper|for|the|inform|glean|from|his|work|in|the|articl|men
tion|mr|cooper|say
sail|up|this|broad|river|in|one hundred and sixty-three|one|note|the|creek
and|estuari|empti|into|it|the|dutch|command|de|vri|discov
about|one|hundr|mile|from|it|mouth|on|the|eastern|shore|a|larg
thick|wood|island|which|he|call|jacqu|eylandt|the|swede|com
ino|seme|seven|or|eight|year|after|observ|the|same|isl|with|much
better|tast|call|it|by|it|indian|name|aquikanasra|though|they|ex
plore|neither|the|dutch|nor|the|swede|settl|here|where|the|maeroah
kong|tribe|of|the|delawar|indian|live|until|the|persecut|in|england
drove|the|friend|toiwest|jersey|for|asylum|these|indian|under|arasapha
their|kino|with|their|villag|at|cooper|s|point|were|the|onli|inhabit
within|our|limit
who|first|of|the|english|emigr|made|the|futur|camden|his|home
is|uncertain|but|it|was|probabl|richard|arnold|or|william|cooper|few
citi|hall|camden|counti|jail|camd
post|offic|and|custom|hous|camden
congressiox|district|of|xejv|jersey|five hundred and thirty-three
trace|remain|of|richard|arnold|who|seem|to|have|left|no|descend|in
these|part|mlliam|cooper|the|ancestor|of|mani|famili|that|still|cluster
about|his|choic|of|a|home|came|from|england|in|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-nine|and|stop|for
about|a|year|at|burlington|befor|he|chose|his|perman|resid|pass
in|up|and|down|the|delawar|the|bold|bluff|heavili|wood|with|pme|tun
be|r|at|the|point|where|the|river|sharpli|curv|receiv|the|stream|call
by|the|swede|the|hiortekilen|or|deer|creek|from|the|mani|deer|seen
along|it|bank|and|along|which|grew|peach|tree|and|the|sweetsmellmg
sassafra|tree|strike|his|fanci|he|fix|upon|it|as|his|iutur|abod|and
call|it|pyne|povnt|his|name|howev|soon|attach|itself|perma
nentli|to|both|point|and|creek|he|locat|at|cooper|s|point|in|the|spring
of|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|build|his|hous|well|out|on|the|river|s|edg|just|below|the
mouth|of|the|creek|a|site|long|year|ago|wash|awa|by|the|encroach
tide
recogn|the|brotherhood|of|the|indian|and|their|right|to|the|soil
that|they|and|their|father|hunt|over|and|possess|undisput|the|com
mission|sent|over|by|the|proprietor|of|west|jersey|bought|of|them
their|right|from|oldham|s|creek|to|assunpink|secur|their|titl|by|three
deed|the|eariiest|of|which|date|sei|tember|ten|one thousand, six hundred and seventy-seven|cover|camden|s
territori|and|extend|from|timber|to|rancoca|creek|william|cooper
further|to|satisfv|the|tribe|at|cooper|s|point|paid|them|for|the|right|they
still|claim|and|receiv|from|them|a|deed|execut|by|tallacca|their|chief
and|wit|by|sever|of|their|tribe|return|the|red|man|s|trust|and
friendli|with|honesti|and|fair|deal|camden|s|eariy|settler|tound
them|alway|friend|and|no|tale|of|indian|massacr|blot|our|histori
the|friend|had|no|sooner|effect|a|settlement|than|they|met|for
worship|the|follow|appear|in|this|minut|of|the|month|meet|held
at|thoma|gardin|s|hous|burlington|seventh|month|septemli|five
one thousand, six hundred and eighty-one|order|that|friend|of|pyne|poynt|have|a|meet|on|everi
fourthdav|and|to|begin|at|the|second|hour|at|richard|arnold|s|hous
it|was|the|onlv|meet|between|salem|and|buriington|and|the|third|in
prioriti|in|west|jersey|and|has|been|kept|up|by|friend|without|a|laps
from|that|time|to|the|present|short|afterward|the|meet|was|held|at
pyne|poynt|at|the|hous|of|william|cooper|a|minist|and|continu
there|until|the|arriv|of|the|irish|friend|who|settl|at|newton|in|the
spring|of|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-two|but|as|the|newton|friend|were|much|more|numer
than|die|few|scatter|famili|about|the|poynt|it|was|more|conveni
to|most|of|the|member|for|the|place|of|worship|to|be|locat|at|their|settl
ment|and|in|16s4|the|first|build|devot|to|religi|meet|in
gloucest|counti|was|built|on|the|middl|branch|of|newton|creek|at|what
five hundred and thirty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
is|now|west|collingswood|station|on|the|read|railroad|to|atlant
citi
b|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|quit|a|number|of|emigr|had|arriv|in|this|part|of|west
jersey|and|settl|about|red|bank|woodburi|arwam|or|gloucest
newton|and|the|po_nt|and|felt|strong|the|inconveni|of|have|to
go|all|the|way|to|salem|or|burlington|to|transact|their|public|busi
accord|on|the|26th|of|may|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-six|the|proprietor|freehold|and|in
habit|of|the|third|and|fourth|tenth|that|is|the|territori|between
pensauken|and|oldman|s|creek|act|in|the|spirit|of|pure|democraci|met
at|arwan|and|form|that|quaint|curious|form|of|counti|govern
have|onli|ten|short|paragraph|that|is|still|preserv|in|the|origin|book
of|minut|in|the|clerk|s|offic|of|gloucest|counti|at|woodburi|this
was|the|origin|of|old|gloucest|the|onli|counti|in|new|jersey|that|can
deduc|it|exist|from|a|direct|and|posit|compact|between|her|in
habit
the|action|of|the|peopl|in|thus|form|their|counti|organ
without|ani|author|of|the|legislatur|was|after|have|been|indirect
recogn|in|one|or|two|other|law|direct|sanction|in|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-four|by|an|act
of|the|legislatur|establish|the|boundari|that|they|had|themselv
chosen|and|adopt|their|titl|of|the|counti|of|gloucest
the|necess|of|a|regular|ferri|to|philadelphia|be|veri|soon|felt|by
the|new|settler|they|appli|to|their|new|court|at|gloucest|to|licens
one|which|on|the|first|day|of|third|month|march|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-seven|it|did|as|appear
by|this|minut|it|is|propos|to|ye|bench|yt|a|iyerri|is|veri|needful|and
much|want|from|jersey|to|philadelphia|and|yt|william|roydon|s|hous
is|lookt|upon|as|a|place|conveni|and|the|said|william|roydon|a|person
suitabl|for|that|implo|and|therefor|an|order|desir|from|ye|bench|that
a|fferri|may|by|there|fix|etc|to|which|ye|bench|assent|and|refer|to|ye
grand|juri|to|method|ye|same|and|fix|ye|rate|thereof|this|they|pro
ceed|to|do|in|a|veri|leisur|manner|for|not|until|one|year|afterward|on
the|first|day|of|the|first|month|one thousand, six hundred and eighty-eight|did|they|issu|their|licens|to|william
roydon|and|his|assign|it|was|locat|near|the|foot|of|cooper|street|it
boat|be|onli|open|flatboat|propel|by|oar|or|sail|a|few|year
afterward|it|was|purchas|by|illiam|cooper|and|for|more|than|one
hundretl|year|thereaft|camden|was|everywher|known|as|cooper|s
ferri
the|establish|of|the|counti|suppli|onli|a|part|of|the|necessari
polit|machineri|and|so|on|the|first|day|of|june|one thousand, six hundred and ninety-five|the|grand|juri
with|the|assent|of|the|bench|and|in|accord|with|an|act|of|the|then|last
assembl|constitut|the|constablewick|or|township|of|newton|to|extend
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and thirty-five
from|the|lowermost|branch|of|cooper|s|creek|to|ye|souther|branch|of
newton|creek|bound|gloucest|but|fix|no|bound|on|the|east
with|their|local|govern|thus|complet|the|peopl|in|these|part|re
main|content|for|one|hundr|and|thirtythre|year|thus|was|creat
old|newton|township|which|after|have|it|fairest|portion|cut|off|in|the
creation|of|haddon|township|was|final|after|a|life|of|one|hundr|and
seventysix|year|swallow|up|by|it|own|progeni|and|obliter|from
the|map|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|when|camden|s|revis|charter|was|obtain
at|the|open|of|the|eighteenth|centuri|the|smoke|curl|from|less
than|a|dozen|clear|by|the|water|s|edg|point|out|the|forerunn|more
than|two|centuri|ago|of|our|present|expand|town|howev|in|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-three
jacob|cooper|a|merchant|live|in|philadelphia|and|a|lineal|descend
of|the|first|william|cooper|forese|the|futur|town|employ|thomp
son|a|philadelphia|surveyor|to|lay|out|forti|acr|into|a|town|plat|a
whig|sympath|with|his|fellow|whig|in|their|stniggl|to|obtain|from
their|mother|countri|that|represent|which|they|claim|should|ever
accompani|taxat|and|vener|those|englishmen|who|believ|in
the|just|of|this|demand|of|the|coloni|had|the|courag|to|open
avow|their|belief|jacob|cooper|name|his|new|town|camden|in|honor|of
that|power|champion|of|constitut|liberti|and|firm|advoc|of|fair
deal|with|the|coloni|who|has|been|call|the|right|arm|of|lord
chatham|charl|pratt|first|earl|of|camden|in|the|infant|town|thus
christen|onli|six|street|ran|north|and|south|king|queen|whitehal
cherri|cedar|and|pine|intersect|at|right|angl|at|the|delawar|side|by
cooper|and|market|street|onli|but|on|the|eastern|side|by|plum|also
almost|immedi|after|camden|was|plan|the|revolut|broke
out|dure|the|whole|of|the|occup|of|philadelphia|by|the|british
cooper|s|point|was|held|by|them|as|an|outpost|lie|direct|opposit
philadelphia|camden|s|territori|was|constant|overrun|and|it|farm
popul|harass|and|alarm|by|detach|parti|of|british|soldier
skirmish|and|forag|take|what|they|wish|although|camden|is
not|distinguish|as|one|of|the|battlefield|of|the|revolut|yet|the|ground
on|which|the|nonresist|follow|of|fox|have|place|their|humbl|meet
inghous|was|twice|the|scene|of|warlik|manoeuv|for|mani|year|after
the|revolut|camden|was|a|town|onli|in|name|and|that|onli|on|paper
be|call|cooper|s|ferri|or|simpli|the|ferri|until|after|the|be
gin|of|this|centuri|a|few|sale|of|lot|had|been|made|and|a|few
hous|begun|to|cluster|about|the|ferri|and|a|road|or|two|more|had|been
open|but|all|els|was|farm|or|wood|land|mien|this|centun|open|not
a|hous|of|worship|stood|within|the|present|limit|of|camden|in|one thousand, eight hundred and one
five hundred and thirty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
howev|the|friend|have|decid|to|move|their|place|of|meet|from
their|old|hous|on|newton|creek|to|a|more|central|local|built|the|bricl
meetinghous|that|stand|at|the|corner|of|mount|ephraim|avenu|ami
mount|vernon|street|the|forerunn|of|camden|s|present|sixtyf|or
seventi|church|and|next|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|the|methodist|dedic|their|first
church|at|the|northwest|corner|of|fourth|and|feder|street|long|smce
convert|into|store|follow|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|by|the|first|baptist|church|on
fourth|street|and|thereaft|the|church|kept|pace|with|camden|s|growth
the|mode|of|ferriag|across|the|delawar|in|open|boat|establish|as
we|have|seen|so|earli|in|our|histori|remain|without|chang|or|improv
ment|until|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|or|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|when|a|small|steamboat|carri|passeng|onli
was|place|on|the|river|she|was|name|the|camden|and|ran|from|the|foot
of|cooper|street|to|the|lower|side|of|market|street|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and nine
the|ferri|at|kaighn|s|point|was|establish|and|soon|a|small|steamboat|aso
carri|passeng|onli|and|also|it|is|believ|call|the|camden|was
place|on|the|line|which|of|the|two|was|the|first|steamboat|is|doubt
it|was|not|until|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-five|that|the|steam|ferri|boat|regular|make|it|trip
winter|and|summer|alik|becam|firm|establish|as|a|tixtm|on|the
delawar|highway
though|camden|s|earli|growth|was|veri|small|and|half|a|centuri
after|it|birth|it|was|but|a|small|town|yet|it|had|a|vigor|of|selfassert
that|compel|it|recognit|by|the|peopl|of|the|countri|the|annual
town|meet|of|newton|township|had|been|held|altern|here|and|at
haddonfield|until|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|when|the|haddonfielcl|peopl|conscious|of|their
greater|vote|strength|at|the|town|meet|held|regular|in|turn|at|tjieir
place|resolv|to|shove|camden|to|the|wall|and|thereaft|to|meet|onli|at
haddonfield|their|superior|number|carri|the|question|but|he|laugh
best|who|laugh|last|and|they|unconsci|arous|the|young|giant|that
ever|afterward|whip|them|in|mani|a|hardfought|battl|the|camden
ian|left|the|town|meet|veri|indign|and|jeremiah|sloan|then|a|tal
ent|young|lawyer|of|great|promis|said|to|the|hacldonfield|i|will|fix
you|i|will|have|camden|incorpor|next|winter|he|execut|this
threat|and|at|the|next|session|of|the|legislatur|the|act|was|pass|incor
porat|the|citi|of|camden|thus|it|was|that|camden|with|a|popul
of|but|one|thousand|one|hundr|and|fortythre|attain|her|legal|ma
joriti|with|the|right|to|manag|her|own|affair|as|she|saw|fit|free|from
the|tutelag|of|countri|town|meet
the|first|charter|was|pass|februari|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|is|entitl|an|act
to|incorpor|a|part|of|the|township|of|newton|in|the|counti|of|glouc
ter|it|has|onli|eighteen|section|and|though|but|seventyon|year|have
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and thirty-seven
pass|mani|of|it|provis|alreadi|sound|quaint|at|the|first|elect
for|citi|offic|held|march|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|the|follow|commoncouncilmen
were|chosen|jame|duer|from|cooper|s|ferri|john|lawrenc|ebenez
tool|and|richard|fetter|from|camden|and|joseph|kaighn|from|kaighn
ton|jame|duer|and|joseph|kaighn|declin|to|serv|at|a|special|elec
tion|held|on|the|5th|of|the|follow|april|edward|dougherti|and|richard
b|champion|were|chosen|in|their|place|the|new|council|held|it|first
meet|on|march|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|elect|samuel|lan|the|first|mayor
of|camden|the|new|municip|hcwexer|had|ut|littl|of|the|appear
of|a|citi|the|three|villag|of|which|it|was|compos|camden|proper
cooper|s|point|and|kaighn|s|point|remain|separ|l|y|cultiv|farni
and|retain|their|peculiar|characterist|for|mani|year
about|this|time|the|desir|for|a|more|speedi|convey|than|the|old
stage|coach|was|crop|out|in|mani|place|throughout|the|countri|and
veri|general|inquiri|was|be|made|into|the|feasibl|of|railroad|to|meet
the|want|dure|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-seven|the|project|of|a|railway|to|connect|philadelphia
and|new|york|began|to|be|talk|of|in|earnest|meet|were|held|in|the
camden|academi|of|those|favor|the|enterpris|preliminari|survey|made
and|such|general|interest|excit|as|final|result|in|the|legislatur|grant
ing|on|februari|four|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|the|charter|for|the|camden|amboy|railroad
and|transport|compani|the|compani|was|soon|organ|and|the
road|begun|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-four|the|first|train|ran|into|camden|this|was|a|veri
mark|event|for|the|young|citi|the|railroad|was|the|longest|then|built|in
this|countri|anrl|it|complet|a|matter|of|great|rejoic
camden|not|satisfi|with|be|a|citi|now|began|to|think|that|there
should|be|a|new|counti|creat|with|it|as|the|shiretown|and|activ|push
the|project|this|excit|great|opposit|throughout|the|counti|indig
nation|meet|were|held|at|woodburi|and|other|place|the|camden
peopl|had|to|fight|almost|unaid|their|uphil|battl|they|claim|it|as|a
necessari|measur|to|accommod|the|fastswel|popul|of|the|north
and|northwestern|township|and|part|to|secur|to|west|jersey|her|just
share|of|influenc|in|the|state|govern|at|last|after|a|hard|fight|under
the|lead|of|captain|john|w|mickl|an|uncompromis|democrat|they
won|and|got|the|legislatur|which|was|democrat|to|pass|on|march|thirteen
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|under|the|plea|that|the|new|counti|would|be|democrat|the|act
set|it|off|from|old|gloucest|and|had|it|name|after|their|own|citi
which|was|to|be|the|seat|of|justic|for|one|year|and|until|an|elect|could
be|had|but|the|peopl|throughout|the|countri|were|so|incens|at|the
citi|s|again|foil|them|that|at|the|first|elect|they|vote|irrespect|of
parti|against|the|democrat|nomine|recogn|no|other|issu|than
five hundred and thirty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
camden|and|anticamden|and|for|fifteen|year|the|democrat|never|carri
tlie|counti|the|same|antagon|crop|out|at|the|perman|fix|of
the|counti|seat|camden|of|cours|nomin|herself|and|all|the|rest|of
the|counti|boil|over|in|rage|at|the|veri|idea|nomin|longa
come|and|carri|the|elect|but|the|camden|peopl|would|not|stay
down|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|had|a|law|pass|direct|a|new|elect|the|second
fight|was|doubli|bitter|it|was|again|the|whole|of|the|counti|against|the
citi|but|camden|had|well|encas|herself|in|armor|against|the|shaft|of|her
oppon|in|her|tmaid|tilt|against|the|field|and|came|out|victori|by|a
larg|major
in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|camden|obtain|a|new|charter|with|enlarg|power|but|no
increas|of|territori|and|began|to|grow|with|consider|energi|until|the
horribl|burn|of|the|ferryboat|new|jersey|on|the|night|of|march|fifteen
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|with|it|holocaust|of|sixtyon|live|at|onc|check|migrat|from
philadelphia|while|the|panic|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|follow|complet|the|blow|to|it
prosper|then|the|doubt|and|uncertainti|of|the|impend|rebellion|and
i|he|exhaust|of|the|struggl|when|enter|upon|protract|the|stagnat
and|our|citi|lay|in|a|torpor|until|late|after|the|collaps|of|the|war|the|pros
perous|time|thaw|it|into|new|life|that|burst|the|chrysali|of|the
boundari|of|it|origin|incorpor|of|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|reach|out|and|grasp
under|it|revis|charter|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|new|territori|increas|it|size|threefold
and|in|the|same|year|when|the|camden|hors|railroad|compani|start
it|passeng|car|came|what|all|had|been|hope|for|pitblic|convey
enabl|everi|one|to|ride|from|one|end|of|the|citi|to|the|other|so|evid
suppli|a|public|want|that|the|west|jersey|press|was|enabl|thus|ex
ultant|to|describ|the|open|of|the|line|to|public|travel|feder|street
had|a|huge|load|of|excit|to|stagger|under|on|saturday|last|and|ihe
street|was|crowd|with|spectat|from|earli|morn|to|dewi|eve|while|the
curbston|corner|in|particular|were|the|resort|of|shout|boy|and|won
dere|men|a|long|wishedfor|event|came|to|pass|and|a|new|era|in|the
growth|of|the|citi|s|conveni|was|success|inaugur|in|a|word
the|new|hors|car|began|to|run|let|us|mark|the|date|novemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one
such|occurr|as|these|are|milepost|in|the|histori|of|our|citi|s|progress
and|should|be|record|as|worthi|of|special|eclat
such|then|broken|told|is|camden|s|stori|of|the|past|today
arous|from|the|stagnat|follow|the|panic|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|our|town|doe|not
have|to|seek|new|territori|but|has|onli|to|receiv|that|tender|to|it|by|it
neighbor|conscious|that|under|it|protect|segi|their|prosper|and
happi|will|be|enhanc|and|enlarg|in|boundari|onethird|and|in
popul|onesixth|under|the|act|of|march|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|annex|at|the
congression|district|of|new|jersey|i39
request|of|it|inhabit|the|town|of|stockton|camden|cover|now|a
territori|of|some|twelv|squar|mile|with|a|popul|of|seventyf|thou
sand|the|metropoli|of|west|jersey|follow|the|law|of|growth|of|all|live
municip|move|on|to|it|greater|and|with|it|improv|street|it|fine
water|it|park|librari|and|hig|school|to|it|higher|develop
sedgwick|r|leap
the|famili|of|which|sedgwick|r|and|david|d|leap|of|penn|grove|are
worthi|repres|is|of|german|extract|and|mani|of|the|sterl
qualiti|of|tliat|sturdi|independ|selfrespect|race|have|been|inherit
by|these|brother|they|and|their|father|befor|them|have|been|identifi
with|mercantil|pursuit|for|mani|decad|and|have|born|a|reput|for
integr|and|busi|honor|which|great|redound|to|their|credit
john|p|leap|the|father|was|a|blacksmith|by|trade|and|follow|that
call|at|sculltown|now|known|as|auburn|until|about|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|he|then
establish|a|general|merchandis|busi|there|and|carri|it|on|success
fullv|for|some|eight|year|believ|that|better|opportun|for|progress
were|to|be|found|in|penn|groe|he|remov|his|store|hither|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight
have|place|his|affair|on|a|good|basi|he|retir|in|favor|of|his|son
sedgwick|r|and|david|d|who|had|assist|him|sinc|their|boyhood|and
were|now|fulli|compet|to|manag|the|busi|he|live|a|few|year
longer|and|was|in|his|sixtieth|year|at|the|time|of|his|death|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|his
widow|whose|maiden|name|was|eunic|denni|surviv|him|a|quarter|of
a|centuri|and|was|eightythre|year|old|when|summon|to|the|better|land
of|their|children|four|are|yet|live|name|sarah|the|widow|of|john|l
biddl|sedgwick|r|david|d|and|charl|the|latter|a|farmer|of|upper
penn|s|neck|township|jame|john|p|georg|and|henrietta|are|deceas
sedgwick|r|leap|was|born|in|the|town|of|auburn|salem|counti|in
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|and|as|state|previous|he|earli|commenc|work|in|his|father|s
store|which|at|first|was|a|veri|small|one|bare|twelv|by|sixteen|feet|in
dimens|later|from|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-eight|to|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|a|storyandahalf|cottag|serv|the
firm|as|a|store|but|in|the|year|last|mention|a|commodi|structur
seventi|by|seventi|feet|in|dimens|with|a|resid|attach|was|built
this|afford|ampl|accommod|for|a|larg|and|well|select|stock|of
good|such|as|is|alway|kept|by|the|enterpris|proprietor|li|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|john
p|our|subject|s|onli|son|was|taken|into|partnership|wit|him|and|they|are
prosper|even|beyond|their|expect
in|the|social|as|well|as|in|the|commerci|workl|mr|leap|has|establish
five hundred and forty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
a|desir|reput|and|in|the|odd|fellow|mason|and|knight|of
pythia|order|he|is|a|high|esteem|member|he|also|belong|to|the
methodist|episcop|church|he|marri|mari|p|framlj|a|daughter|of
job|and|hannah|somer|framb|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|her|parent|pass|their
entir|live|in|atlant|counti|new|jersey|a|son|and|a|daughter|were
born|to|mr|and|mrs|leap|but|the|daughter|laura|e|has|one|een|call|to
the|better|land
david|d|leap|a|brother|of|seilgwick|r|leap|and|for|a|number|of
year|his|busi|partner|is|now|conduct|a|cloth|and|men|s|furnish
store|in|a|fine|build|opposit|our|subject|s|locat|he|was|a|clerk|for
some|time|in|the|store|of|david|guest|and|at|the|death|of|his|father|liecam
the|partner|of|sedgwick|r|leap|which|connect|under|the|firm|name|of
s|r|leap|brother|continu|in|exist|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|was|one|of|the
prime|mover|in|have|penn|grove|incorpor|as|a|borough|and|in|all
local|afifair|he|take|a|lead|part|he|was|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|to|adelin|s
smith|a|daughter|of|john|smith|of|pittsgrov|township|and|four|children
have|been|born|to|them|name|wilber|rena|b|jenni|and|aloni|the
latter|deceas
s|r|budd
one|of|the|most|success|busi|men|of|woodburi|new|jersey|is
the|gentleman|whose|name|head|this|sketch|he|is|here|engag|in|the
liveri|busi|and|also|conduct|an|undertak|establish|his|enter
prise|and|dilig|have|brought|to|him|prosper|and|he|is|account|one
of|the|valu|citizen|of|gloucest|counti
mr|budd|was|born|in|burlington|counti|new|jersey|april|twenty-six|one hundred and eighty-five|one
and|his|father|thoma|budd|was|a|nativ|of|the|same|place|the|grand
father|samuel|budd|was|a|minist|of|the|methodist|church|and|was
of|english|descent|the|famili|have|been|found|in|america|at|an|earli
day|thoma|budd|was|a|stock|dealer|and|drover|and|made|veri|extens
shipment|he|own|a|farm|of|one|hundr|acr|near|pemberton|and
was|also|the|proprietor|of|a|stage|line|from|pemberton|to|mount|holi
in|all|his|undertak|he|was|remark|success|but|his|prosper
could|not|be|attribut|to|chanc|it|came|as|the|result|of|close|applic
and|the|exercis|of|correct|busi|principl|and|in|conseciu|was|well
merit
mr|budd|was|unit|in|marriag|to|amanda|daughter|of|solomon
middleton|who|was|one|of|the|extens|dealer|in|hors|in|pemberton
this|state|unto|mr|and|mrs|budd|were|born|seven|children|fie|of
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and forty-one
whom|are|now|live|anni|wife|of|byron|grill|of|vincenttown|new
jersey|s|r|of|this|review|mari|the|wife|of|frank|butterworth|of
trenton|thoma|e|of|south|orang|and|lilli|wife|of|frank|carr|of
woodburi|the|father|of|these|children|resid|in|pemberton|and|was|a
veri|promin|member|of|the|baptist|church|take|an|activ|part|in|it
work|and|serv|as|a|member|of|the|synod|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|but|his
wife|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|seventythre|year
s|r|budd|was|rear|upon|the|old|home|farm|and|is|indebt|to|the
common|school|of|the|neighborhood|for|the|educ|he|receiv|he
enter|busi|life|as|a|butcher|and|follow|that|busi|in|his|nativ
counti|for|five|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|he|engag|in|the|liveri|busi|in|cam
den|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|he|came|to|woodburi|where|he|open|a|butcher|s|shop
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|purchas|the|newton|hotel|stabl|and|also|leas|anoth
liveri|stabl|both|of|them|he|has|sinc|conduct|and|both|are|excel
equip|with|a|fine|line|of|carriag|he|doe|the|largest|busi|in
his|line|in|the|town|and|his|courtesi|to|his|patron|his|reliabl|and|his
enterpris|assur|him|continu|success|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|also|extend|the
field|of|his|labor|by|engag|in|the|undertak|busi|and|has|found
this|a|profit|sourc|of|incom
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|mr|budd|marri|miss|anni|carlin|and|they|had|three|chil
dren|rena|edna|and|mari|mr|budd|belong|to|the|red|cross|societi
and|the|knight|of|pythia|fratern|dure|the|year|of|his|resid
in|woodburi|he|has|won|the|high|regard|of|all|with|whom|he|came|in
contact|by|lii|honor|busi|method|his|fidel|to|all|the|duti
of|life|and|his|loyalti|as|a|citizen|through|his|own|welldirect|efifort
he|has|acquir|a|handsom|compet|and|his|success|illustr|what
can|be|accomplish|through|determin|purpos|and|a|laudabl|ambit
the|woodburi|daili|time
the|woodburi|daili|time|was|establish|on|the|2d|of|februari
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|by|it|present|proprietor|c|walter|hawn|and|j|frank|wilson
the|paper|has|been|manag|as|an|independ|journal|and|has|been
an|earnest|adaoc|of|all|local|measur|and|movement|for|the|public
benefit|it|has|a|veri|larg|circul|in|the|counti|and|state|and|the
firm|own|a|splendid|equip|plant|locat|on|cooper|street|gas
power|is|use|in|the|oper|of|the|machineri|and|the|oiific|is|well
equip|with|all|modern|conveni|and|accessori|for|carri|on|the
busi|the|time|is|one|of|the|lead|paper|in|the|counti|it|is
five hundred and forty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
publish|as|a|fourpag|daili|except|on|saturday|when|it|is|an|eight
page|paper|it|is|the|onli|daili|in|gloucest|counti|and|is|inde|credit
ableto|the|proprietor|and|to|the|district|through|which|it|is|distribut
the|owner|are|men|of|good|busi|abil|and|their|advocaci|of|public
measur|has|been|an|influenti|factor|in|support|of|mani|interest
charl|walter|hawn
charl|walter|hawn|one|of|the|proprietor|and|publish|of|the
woodburi|daili|time|was|born|at|millvill|new|jersey|on|the|i3t|of
juli|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|his|parent|be|charl|and|rachel|hawn|the|famili|is|of
german|lineag|and|was|establish|in|southern|new|jersey|at|a|ven
earli|day|the|grandfath|mose|hawn|resid|in|salem|counti|near
alloway|where|he|follow|the|blacksmith|s|trade|and|probabl|spent
his|last|day|he|rear|a|larg|famili|includ|charl|hawn|who|also
becam|a|blacksmith|and|follow|that|pursuit|throughout|the|year|of
his|activ|busi|life|he|was|long|employ|in|the|line|of|his|chosen
vocat|by|the|firm|of|whital|tatum|compani|of|millvill|he
marri|rachel|green|the|parent|of|our|subject|had|nine|children
name|isaiah|c|john|k|david|bessi|c|walter|eva|c|william|c
and|two|who|die|in|childhood
dure|his|youth|mr|hawn|of|this|review|resid|in|cumberland
salem|and|gloucest|counti|and|obtain|his|educ|in|the|public
school|near|his|home|at|the|age|of|fifteen|year|he|had|to|put|asid|his
textbook|in|order|to|earn|his|own|live|he|work|on|the|farm|dure
the|spring|summer|and|fall|month|and|pursu|his|educ|through
the|winter|season|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|he|began|learn|the|printer|s|trade|at|elmer
new|jersey|which|he|has|sinc|follow|he|master|the|busi|in|the
compos|room|and|now|has|a|practic|knowledg|of|all|depart
of|the|work|both|as|a|compositor|and|editor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|he|establish|the
woodburi|daili|time|with|j|frank|wilson|as|a|partner|in|the|busi
they|have|made|this|one|of|the|lead|paper|in|southern|new|jersey|and
are|now|enjoy|a|larg|and|lucrat|patronag
mr|hawn|was|marri|at|elmer|new|jersey|on|the|15th|of|septemb
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|to|miss|matti|elizabeth|wilson|and|unto|them|have|been|born
three|children|esther|may|septemb|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|charl|elmer|april|four
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|and|helen|clair|june|sixteen|one thousand, nine hundred
mr|and|mrs|hawn|are|promin|member|and|activ|worker|in
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and forty-three
the|keinbl|methodist|episcop|church|mr|hawn|is|also|activ|in|the
epworth|leagu|and|has|been|secretari|and|presid|of|the|chapter
on|the|2d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|becam|a|member|of|woodburi|castl
no|fifteen|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|and|is|now|serv|as|it|treasur
in|pohtic|he|is|a|republican|with|prohibit|tendenc|his|militari
experi|cover|five|year|servic|with|compani|e|of|the|sixth|regi
ment|of|the|new|jersey|nation|guard|which|he|join|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety
as|a|citizen|he|is|publicspirit|and|progress|and|withhold|his|support
from|no|movement|or|measur|which|is|calcul|to|prove|of|public|benefit
along|social|materi|educ|and|moral|line|through|the|column
of|his|paper|and|by|person|efifort|he|doe|what|he|can|to|advanc|public
good|and|his|worth|as|a|man|and|citizen|is|wide|acknowledg
j|hildreth|fogg
the|fogg|famili|is|one|of|the|oldest|in|salem|counti|new|jersey
charl|fogg|the|greatgreatgrandfath|of|j|hildreth|fogg|settl
on|the|farm|in|lower|alloway|creek|township|now|occupi|by|the|latter
in|one thousand, seven hundred and fifty-three|and|it|has|sinc|been|occupi|by|the|famili|j|hildreth|fogg|was
born|on|that|farm|may|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-four|and|is|a|son|of|joseph|h|fogg|and|rachel
nee|allen|his|father|was|a|son|of|david|fogg|who|was|a|nativ|of|green
wich|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|and|came|to|lower|alloway|creek
township|soon|after|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|and|die|there|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|at|the|age|of|seventyon
year|he|was|a|man|well|known|in|the|counti|serv|as|counti|treasur
for|a|number|of|year|and|was|one|of|the|most|activ|republican|in|his
township|unwav|in|his|support|of|the|principl|of|his|parti|the
famili|consist|of|five|children|j|hildreth|hannah|now|mrs|oliv
smith|of|salem|isaac|a|farmer|in|mannington|township|rachel|now|mrs
charl|zelley|of|salem|and|aaron|a|farmer|in|mannington|township
mr|fogg|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|salem|counti|and|at
mount|holli|new|jersey|upon|leav|school|he|return|to|the|farm
and|has|follow|farm|all|his|life|becom|the|owner|of|the|old|home
stead|upon|his|father|s|death|he|is|a|success|farmer|an|extens
grower|of|tomato|the|stapl|product|of|southern|new|jersey|and|has
his|own|canneri|for|prepar|them|for|the|market
mr|fogg|was|marri|march|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|to|elizabeth|a|daughter|of
jess|patrick|of|lower|alloway|creek|by|whom|he|has|five|children
arthur|l|frank|g|hildreth|ross|bessi|l|and|william
r44
biograph|histori|of|the|first
mr|fogg|is|a|republican|but|has|never|sought|public|offic|or|polit
prefer|in|religi|view|like|his|ancestor|he|is|an|adher|of|the
belief|of|the|societv|of|friend
ford|hotel
ford|hotel|of|swedesboro|is|now|own|by|harr|t|ford|and|under
his|manag|it|has|maintain|it|place|among|the|lead|hotel|in
southern|xew|jersev|the|hous|was|built|more|than|a|himdr|year|ago
by|john|giu|and|sinc|that|time
has|been|own|and|manag|by
mani|well|known|and|promin
men|it|was|at|one|time|the
properti|of|joseph|hillman|and
was|afterward|own|by|the|har
ker|estat|by|which|it|was|sold
in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|to|georg|t|ford|the
father|of|the|present|proprietor
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|georg|t|ford|i|am
prove|the|place|by|build|a
larg|addit|to|it|make|it|a
ven|complet|and|comfort
ford|s|hotei|jjotg|j|j|uilt|of|stoue|and|has
a|veri|substanti|appear|and
is|today|one|of|the|best|hotel|stand|in|gloucest|countv|it|was
own|and|manag|by|georg|t|ford|from|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|imtil|his|death|which
occmr|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|when|harri|t|ford|took|charg|and|has|sinc|been|the
proprietor|he|is|a|popular|host|ging|close|attent|to|his|busi|and
by|his|straightforward|method|win|the|public|confid|and|therefor
the|pubuc|support
j|frxk|tlsox
well|known|in|ioumahst|circl|as|one|of|the|proprietor|and|editor
of|the|woodbur|daili|time|mr|wilson|is|account|one|of|the|lead
and|influenti|citizen|of|southern|xew|jersey|he|is|number|among|the
nativ|son|of|the|state|his|birth|ha|occur|in|franklinvill|glou
cester|coimti|on|the|2d|of|xovemb|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|for|mani|year|his|ancestor
had|hved|in|that|section|of|the|state|the|famili|have|originallv|been
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and forty-five
found|in|america|by|german|emigr|who|sought|home|in|the|new
world|the|parent|of|our|subject|were|eh|and|sarah|andrew|wilson
the|patern|grandfath|eli|wilson|resid|in|franklinvill|and|was|a
manufactur|of|brick|he|die|about|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|in|his|famili|were|six|chil
dren|name|joseph|eli|rebecca|elizabeth|martha|and|rachel|most
of|his|famili|resid|in|philadelphia|but|rachel|and|elizabeth|are|now
deceas|the|grandmoth|rachel|clare|andrew|was|of|english|de
scent|and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|her|ancestor|came|to|the|new|world|from
england|and|her|father|robert|clare|fought|with|the|american|armi
in|the|war|of|the|revolut|valiant|aid|in|the|struggl|for|independ
enc|he|was|one|of|the|earliest|settler|in|franklin|township|gloucest
counti
eli|wilson|the|father|of|our|subject|made|farm|his|life|work|and
was|activ|identifi|with|agricultur|pursuit|for|mani|year|but|is
now|live|retir|in|woodburi|enjoy|a|rest|which|he|has|truli|earn
and|rich|deserv|at|the|time|of|the|civil|war|he|loyal|respond|to
the|call|for|troop|and|join|compani|i|twentjfourth|regiment|of|new
jersey|volunt|serv|for|nine|month|he|was|wound|in|the|battl
of|fredericksburg
he|marri|sarah|andrew|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|nine|children
name|lewi|who|die|in|childhood|thoma|h|who|is|live|at|mill
hall|pennsylvania|elmer|e|who|die|at|the|age|of|eighteen|year|j
frank|perri|b|who|is|marri|and|follow|farm|at|elmer|new|jersey
emma|r|wife|of|david|hew|of|woodburi|new|jersey|matti|e
wife|of|c|walter|hawn|of|woodburi|albert|s|who|is|engag|in|the
bicycl|busi|in|woodburi|and|howel|a|a|windowglass|worker|of
millvill|new|jersey
j|frank|wilson|pursu|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|franklin
vill|and|enter|upon|his|busi|career|as|an|employ|in|the|print
depart|of|the|patentmedicin|work|of|g|g|green|at|woodburi
he|remain|for|some|time|in|that|employ|and|afterward|assist|in|the
establish|of|the|daili|time|a|paper|with|which|he|has|sinc|been
connect|and|now|recogn|as|one|of|the|lead|journal|in|southern
new|jersey
rir|wilson|wed|liss|alari|e|dail|of|aoodburi|a|daughter|of
jeremiah|dale|and|they|have|five|children|ethel|m|now|the|wife|of
w|e|keat|of|pen|argyl|pennsylvania|harri|e|j|frank|robert|h
and|howard|w|with|the|except|of|the|daughter|the|children|are|all
vet|at|their|parent|home|mr|amlson|and|his|famili|attend|the|methodist
episcop|church|of|which|he|is|a|member|and|has|been|a|truste|for
five hundred and forty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fifteen|year|in|polit|he|is|a|stalwart|republican|take|a|deep|and
earnest|interest|in|the|work|of|the|parti|local|his|advanc|in|the
busi|world|is|due|entir|to|his|own|effort|his|close|applic|his
sturdi|persever|and|his|sound|judgment|he|is|recogn|as|one
of|the|most|energet|and|most|enterpris|men|of|woodburi|and|is
in|everi|way|a|splendid|type|of|our|best|american|citizenship
henri|allen
for|more|than|thirtyf|year|henri|allen|was|number|among|the
lead|repres|of|the|agricultur|interest|of|gloucest|counti
and|by|the|exercis|of|his|busi|abil|by|unflag|industri|and|care
ful|manag|he|secur|a|handsom|compet|which|class|him
among|the|wealthi|citizen|of|this|communiti|his|mani|excel|of
charact|also|gain|for|him|the|high|regard|of|his|friend|and|all|who
knew|him|mourn|his|death
henri|allen|was|born|in|salem|counti|new|jersey|on|the|nth|of
august|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|and|was|a|son|of|henri|and|ann|roger|allen|the
former|was|born|juli|nineteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-nine|and|die|decemb|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|while|the
latter|was|born|august|twenty-four|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety|and|die|februari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|they|were
marri|on|the|21st|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|and|becam|the|parent|of|six|chil
dren|michael|the|eldest|was|born|novemb|twelve|one thousand, eight hundred and thirteen|and|resid|in
lexington|missouri|but|die|februari|six|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|while|on|a|busi|trip
in|the|east|margaret|born|februari|twenty-five|one hundred and eighty-one|six|becam|the|wife|of|charl
engl|of|camden|new|jersey|and|die|decemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|maria|born
may|twenty-seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen|becam|the|wife|of|jame|thompson|their|home|be
between|auburn|and|sharptown|and|her|death|occur|march|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four
henri|was|the|next|of|the|famili|joseph|r|born|octob|twenty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|die
near|woodstown|new|jersey|and|jehu|born|april|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|die|in
woodstown
henri|allen|whose|name|introduc|this|record|remain|in|salem
counti|until|about|one thousand, eight hundred and forty|when|he|remov|to|gibbstown|gloucest
counti|he|was|marri|on|the|24th|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|to|miss|catherin
fish|a|daughter|of|isaac|fish|of|repaupo|new|jersey|her|death
occur|februari|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|at|the|age|of|fortyfour|year|eight|children
were|born|of|their|union|name|ann|deceas|wife|of|edward|g|green
of|gibbstown|new|jersey|maria|f|the|wife|of|samuel|salisburi|of
swedesboro|isaac|a|farmer|of|paulsboro|joseph|who|die|at|the|age
congression|district|of|neif|jersey|five hundred and forty-seven
of|three|year|eli|who|die|in|gibbstown|at|the|age|of|fortyf|year
margaret|the|wife|of|amo|g|hurf|of|swedesboro|veronica|the|wife
of|benjamin|weatherbi|of|millvill|xew|jersey|and|kate|the|wife|of
william|h|cozen|of|swedesboro
throughout|his|resid|in|gloucest|counti|air|allen|follow|the
occup|of|farm|and|a|glanc|indic|to|the|passersbi|the|care
supervis|which|he|bestow|upon|his|place|he|follow|practic|and
progress|method|understood|the|rotat|of|crop|knew|what|kind
of|soil|was|need|for|the|differ|cereal|and|so|conduct|his|farm
interest|that|he|secur|therefrom|a|handsom|financi|return|that|made
him|one|of|the|wealthi|men|of|gloucest|counti|he|was|at|all|time
honor|and|upright|in|his|deal|and|just|in|his|relat|with|his
fellow|men|veri|loyal|to|his|friend|and|such|qualiti|gain|for|him|the
warm|regard|of|all|who|knew|him|and|in|his|death|the|communiti|mourn
the|loss|of|one|of|it|most|valu|citizen
edmund|s|hildreth
the|name|of|hildreth|figur|conspicu|on|the|page|of|new|jersey|s
histori|from|an|earli|period|in|the|develop|of|the|state|it|representa
tive|have|been|promin|in|public|affair|and|have|been|activ|in|advanc
ing|the|commerci|and|indu|trial|interest|which|have|led|to|the|substanti
upbuild|and|progress|of|the|local|with|which|they|have|been|con
nect|two|centuri|have|probabl|pass|sinc|three|brother|of|the
name|of|hildreth|leav|the|littl|rockrib|countri|of|wale|cross
the|broad|atlant|to|the|new|world|and|locat|on|long|island|one
remain|there|but|the|other|two|afterward|came|to|this|state|one|of
these|brother|was|david|hildreth|who|took|up|his|abod|at|rio|grand
he|and|his|wife|sarah|hildreth|were|the|parent|of|joshua|hildreth|the
greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|joshua|was|the|first|judg|of|cape|may
counti|and|wield|a|strong|influenc|on|the|public|life|of|this|section
of|the|state
ephraim|hildreth|the|grandfath|was|born|at|rio|grand|and
engag|in|merchandis|at|that|place|for|mani|year|he|help|to|build
a|vessel|for|servic|in|the|war|of|eighteen|twelve|a|brig|for|the|privat|servic|but
when|it|was|almost|readi|for|use|it|was|burn|by|thg|british|his|death
occur|when|he|was|about|fortyf|year|of|age|in|his|famili|were
two|laughter|and|three|son|edmund|went|to|sea|when|twentvtwo
five hundred and forty-eight|biograph|histori|op|the|pirst
year|of|age|with|about|eighteen|other|from|rio|grand|bound|for
charleston|south|carolina|and|in|a|storm|at|sea|all|were|lost|swain
was|kill|by|a|stroke|of|lightn|while|on|a|vessel|ofif|the|coast|of|norfolk
virginia|jane|h|marri|david|t|smith|now|a|retir|sea|captain|at
cape|may|court|hous|lydia|marri|captain|morri|cress|who|com
mand|a|vessel|and|they|had|two|children|addi|and|jeremiah|the
grandfath|die|about|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-two|at|the|age|of|fortyf|year|and|the|grand
mother|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|at|the|advanc|age|of|eightysix|year
georg|hildreth|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|at|rio|grand|in
one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|at|one|time|made|his|home|at|cold|spring|and|for|forti|year|prior
to|his|death|was|a|resid|of|cape|may|he|becam|a|sea|captain|and
own|a|vessel|befor|he|was|twentyf|year|of|age|he|built|the
columbia|hotel|the|largest|hotel|in|cape|may|at|that|time|the|build
and|ground|occupi|four|squar|he|was|not|then|twentytwo|year
of|age|a|fact|which|indic|how|earli|he|becam|promin|connect
with|the|busi|interest|of|his|nativ|countri|he|was|entir|a|self
made|man|and|though|he|acquir|a|handsom|capit|he|often|remark
that|he|never|felt|so|rich|in|his|life|as|when|he|possess|twelv|penni
which|he|had|secur|by|sell|rabbit|for|three|year|mr|hildreth
conduct|his|hotel|and|then|sold|it|to|john|c|bullitt|for|twentytwo
thousand|dollar|subsequ|he|built|the|first|factori|for|the|manu
factur|of|oil|secur|from|the|menhaden|fish|caught|in|delawar|bay
and|had|a|number|of|sloop|for|carri|the|fish|to|the|factori|the|oil
sold|for|a|dollar|and|a|half|per|gallon|and|the|invest|prove|a|profit
one|after|conduct|the|enterpris|for|a|time|he|sold|out|for|twelv
thousand|dollar|in|gold|he|then|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|establish|the|flour|and|feed
busi|now|carri|on|by|our|subject|and|success|conduct|the
store|until|his|death|he|built|the|west|end|hotel|and|mani|cottag
includ|carrol|villa|the|wyom|columbia|hous|and|mani|smaller
one|through|his|vari|and|extens|busi|interest|he|acquir|a
handsom|compet|and|was|not|onli|promin|in|busi|affair|but
was|also|a|leader|in|public|thought|and|movement|he|was|one|of|the
first|commission|of|cape|may|be|associ|on|the|board|with|j
sewel|john|c|bullitt|and|j|q|william|he|was|the|agent|for|the
new|york|board|of|underwrit|for|southern|new|jersey|was|the
keeper|of|the|lifesav|station|for|nineteen|year|and|organ|the|first
wreck|crew|at|cape|may|he|alway|own|a|number|of|boat|and
his|splendid|execut|abil|and|indefatig|energi|enabl|him|to|suc
cessfullv|control|his|mani|interest|at|the|same|time|he|took|an|activ
part|in|whatev|tend|to|prove|of|public|benefit|and|his|labor|larg
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and forty-nine
promot|the|welfar|of|the|town|his|pohtic|support|was|given|the
repubhcan|parti
georg|hildreth|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|sarali|ai|worrel
and|to|them|were|born|two|son|and|four|daughter|millic|the|wife|of
j|l|richardson|the|postmast|of|cape|may|georgi|the|widow|of
i|a|garrison|who|was|engag|in|the|insur|busi|in|cape|may
and|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|lydia|the|wife|of|milton|marci|of|illinoi|edmund|of
this|review|lewi|who|marri|maud|schilling|and|is|engag|in|farm
and|susi|m|who|complet|the|famili|the|father|die|novemb|twenty-five
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|and|the|mother|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|wdien|fiftytwo|year|of|age
edmund|swain|hildreth|a|worthi|repres|of|tlii|promin
famili|was|born|in|the|citi|of|cape|may|juli|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|and|in|the|public
school|of|the|counti|pursu|his|preliminari|educ|which|was|sup
plement|by|studi|in|the|south|jersey|institut|at|bridgeton|and|a|two
year|cours|in|the|state|normal|school|at|trenton|where|he|was|gradu
ate|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|he|subsequ|took|a|commerci|cours|in|pierc|s|busi
ness|colleg|where|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|and|thus|well|equip|for
the|practic|duti|of|hfe|he|enter|his|father|s|store|where|he|occupi
a|cleric|posit|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|then|took|a|crip|throug|h|the|west|return
ing|after|three|year|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|engag|in|the|oyster
plant|busi|at|cape|may|and|enjoy|an|extens|trade|his|sale
exceed|those|of|all|the|other|oyster|merchant|in|the|town|he|rais
from|ten|to|twenti|bushel|of|plant|annual|and|his|larg|shi|mnent
brought|him|excel|financi|return|sinc|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven
devot|his|attent|to|the|fiour|and|feed|busi|and|now|control|the
most|extens|enterpris|in|that|line|in|the|counti|the|store|be|eighti
by|two|hundr|feet|and|extend|from|chestnut|to|jackson|street
he|employ|eight|men|through|the|summer|and|his|patronag|is|steadili
increas|for|his|busi|method|are|most|honor|and|he|carri
a|high|grade|of|flour|and|feed
on|the|3d|of|august|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|mr|hildreth|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|kate|willig|a|daughter|of|edward|willig|of|philadelphia|and|to
them|have|been|born|two|children|edna|and|norma|they|make|their
home|in|cape|may|and|occupi|an|enviabl|posit|in|the|circl|of|societi
where|intellig|and|cultur|are|the|characterist|of|the|member|mr
hildreth|is|a|man|of|sterl|worth|of|pleasant|manner|of|social|qualiti
and|genial|disposit|his|friend|are|mani|and|maintain|for|him|a|high
regard|his|busi|method|are|practic|and|progress|safe|and|hon
orabl|and|his|capabl|manag|is|annual|augment|his|capit
5so|biograph|histuki|of|the|first
samuel|e|ewe
in|the|liattl|of|the|boynei|one|of|the|most|famous|militari|engag
ment|known|to|histori|finley|ewe|of|londonderri|ireland|fought
with|such|gallantri|and|braveri|that|he|was|public|compliment|by|king
william|iii|who|also|present|him|with|a|sword|from|that|gallant
warrior|samuel|eldredg|ewe|is|descend|be|of|scotchirish|lineag
in|the|year|which|have|sinc|pass|the|name|has|figur|conspicu
in|connect|with|mani|import|event|and|sinc|thoma|ewe|a|son
of|the|hero|of|boyn|came|to|america|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighteen|it|repres|here|have
left|the|impress|of|their|individu|upon|the|public|life|of|the|state|and
nation|thoma|ewe|took|up|his|abod|in|cumberland|counti|new
jersey|where|he|die|leav|a|numer|progeni|among|his|descend
are|number|general|thoma|ewe|at|one|time|a|unit|state|senat
from|ohio|and|at|anoth|the|secretari|of|the|treasuri|and|his|sister|who
becam|the|wife|of|general|william|t|sherman
jeremiah|ewe|the|grandfath|of|samuel|ewe|resid|at|cold
spring|cape|may|counti|and|was|one|of|the|most|extens|farmer|in|this
section|of|the|state|his|farm|be|two|mile|squar|he|was|regard|as
one|of|the|wealthi|men|of|that|time|and|was|also|promin|as|a|leader|of
public|opinion|in|his|communiti|he|loyal|serv|his|countri|in|the
navi|dure|the|war|of|the|revolut|and|was|activ|in|promot|the
becaus|of|independ|his|polit|support|was|afterward|given|the|dem
ocraci|and|in|his|religi|faith|he|was|a|presbyterian|he|was|twice
marri|and|his|children|were|leam|the|father|of|our|subject|jere
miah|who|die|in|earli|manhood|christoph|who|die|in|childhood
david|a|romin|educ|and|counti|superintend|of|the|school|of
ca|5e|may|counti|who|die|at|the|age|of|seventytwo|year|rev|robert
who|engag|in|teach|school|in|indiana|and|afterward|becam|a|presbi
terian|clergyman|he|was|marri|in|indiana|and|die|in|earli|manhood
leav|two|children|livingston|and|mrs|e|barnett|sarah|becam|the
wife|of|william|cum|a|carriagebuild|live|at|fish|creek|cape
may|counti|by|whom|she|had|three|children|samuel|mari|louis|and
william|and|lydia|becam|the|wife|of|seth|miller|a|farmer|at|green|creek
cape|may|counti|and|their|children|are|jame|seth|obe|deceas|and
mari|c|the|wife|of|w|b|miller|exsen|from|cape|may|counti|one
of|the|most|promin|men|of|this|section|of|the|state|the|patern|grand
father|of|our|subject|die|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year
leam|ewe|was|born|at|cold|spring|cape|may|counti|new|jersey
in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|acquir|a|good|educ|and|engag|in|teach|school|later
congression|district|of|new|lersey|five hundred and fifty-one
he|devot|his|energi|to|the|cultiv|of|the|old|homestead|farm|upon
which|he|spent|his|remain|day|he|took|part|in|the|coast|defens|in
the|war|of|8i2|and|was|ever|a|loyal|and|publicspirit|citizen|with|the
presbyterian|church|he|held|membership|and|in|his|polit|faith|he|was
a|democrat|he|was|twice|marri|his|first|union|be|with|joanna
woolson|their|eldest|child|eliza|ann|die|in|earli|girlhood|jeremiah
die|in|childhood|mari|becam|the|wife|of|elijah|hand|now|deceas
by|whom|she|had|six|children|mari|learn|e|charl|e|emma
elijah|and|isabel|but|the|vast|two|are|now|deceas|lydia|is|the|wife|of
john|nobb|and|has|two|daughter|mari|e|and|kate|eliza|becam|the
wife|of|samuel|bornel|william|marri|isabel|robinson|at|carlisl|penn
sylvania|and|has|three|children|alexand|william|and|netti|robert
serv|as|a|soldier|in|the|civil|war|and|die|from|the|effect|of|the|servic
and|jame|marri|emma|stratton|by|whom|he|had|five|children|georg
learn|bellford|myra|and|ella|he|serv|throughout|the|civil|war
under|three|enlist|he|was|first|a|member|of|compani|f|new|jersey
volunt|later|join|the|marin|servic|and|last|was|a|member|of|the
heavi|artilleri|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|learn|ewe|marri
mari|inman|the|widow|of|his|halfbroth|robert|and|by|this|second
union|was|born|a|son|samuel|eldredg|whose|name|head|this|sketch|the
father|die|at|the|age|of|seventyfour|year|and|the|mother|pass|away|in
one thousand, eight hundred and forty-three
mr|ewe|who|is|now|one|of|the|most|promin|and|influenti|citi
zen|of|cape|may|counti|was|born|at|the|old|famili|homestead|in|cold
spring|octob|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|and|in|the|common|school|acquir|his|educ
but|at|the|age|of|sixteen|put|asid|his|book|and|work|at|farm|for|two
year|at|the|age|of|eighteen|he|went|to|sea|sail|on|merchant|vessel
engag|in|the|coast|trade|and|in|trade|with|the|west|indi|steadili
he|work|his|way|upward|his|dilig|and|faith|win|him|pro
motion|until|he|was|made|captain|at|differ|time|he|command|the
william|a|steelman|the|florenc|the|mari|s|ewe|which|he|built|and
own|and|a|number|of|other|vessel|he|sail|for|other|peopl|and|con
tinu|his|seafar|life|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|when|he|return|to|cape|may|counti
and|becam|engag|in|general|contract|build|sea|wall|bridg
move|hous|and|do|other|contract|work|in|this|line|he|emplov|as
mani|as|sixti|men
his|busi|interest|howev|are|extens|and|of|vari|charact
he|has|been|the|proprietor|of|the|shoreham|hotel|for|two|year|the|largest
hotel|on|cape|may|point|have|accommod|for|two|hundr|and
five hundred and fifty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
fifti|peopl|most|of|the|room|command|a|splendid|view|of|the|ocean|and
the|hotel|is|eciual|in|appoint|and|accommod|to|the|best|in|the
state|there|are|broad|verandah|spacious|hall|cool|parlor|a|fine|dine
room|and|offic|equip|in|the|most|modern|style|mr|ewe|was|also
engag|in|merchandis|at|schelling|land|and|has|devot|his|ener
gie|in|a|measur|to|the|fire|insur|busi|and|is|quit|extens|en
gage|in|the|realest|busi|buy|and|sell|properti|he|was|also|a
member|of|the|board|of|trade|and|was|director|in|the|cape|may|save|fund
build|loan|associ|for|twelv|year|these|mani|busi|in
terest|so|vari|in|charact|plain|indic|the|superior|abil|and|enter
prise|of|mr|ewe|his|judgment|is|rare|at|fault|and|as|he|is|quick
to|plan|and|determin|in|the|execut|of|his|plan|he|has|won|prosper
and|gain|a|place|among|the|capitalist|of|southern|new|jersey|he|has
follow|a|safe|conserv|polici|yet|is|progress|and|energet|and
whatev|he|has|undertaken|he|has|carri|forward|to|success|complet
in|the|public|affair|of|the|counti|he|has|ever|taken|a|deep|interest|and
has|loyal|serv|his|fellow|citizen|in|a|number|of|import|posit
he|has|been|three|time|the|mayor|of|west|cape|may|and|for|two|term
has|been|a|member|of|the|board|of|chosen|freehold|he|has|also|serv
on|the|board|of|educ|and|as|collector|and|treasur|of|west|cape|may
and|ever|exercis|his|offici|prerog|to|advanc|the|substanti|up
build|and|progress|of|the|communiti|he|was|a|member|of|the|pres
byterian|church|at|cold|spring|and|is|a|member|and|truste|of|the|cape
presbyterian|chapel|in|west|cape|may|social|he|is|connect|with|cape
island|lodg|no|thirty|f|a|m|with|the|ancient|order|of|unit|work
men|and|the|independ|order|of|heptasoph
in|one hundred and eighty-seven|one|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|ewe|and|miss|mari|s
a|daughter|of|abijah|d|reev|a|farmer|of|cape|may|counti|new|jersey
mrs|ewe|die|april|twenty-eight|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-seven|at|the|age|of|fortyfour|year|leav|four
children|amanda|is|the|wife|of|southard|eldredg|of|west|cape|may
and|they|had|two|children|southard|who|die|at|the|age|of|six|month
and|mari|e|and|samuel|allen|and|lesli|are|at|home
while|his|ancestor|won|promin|in|polit|and|militari|life|mr
ewe|has|becom|no|less|distinguish|in|commerci|circl|and|it|is|to
commerci|activ|that|the|prosper|and|develop|of|a|counti|state
and|nation|are|due|as|a|busi|man|he|has|been|enterpris|energet
and|alway|abreast|of|the|time|and|has|been|reward|by|an|ampl|fortun
he|command|respect|wherev|he|is|known|and|no|histori|of|southern|new
jersey|would|be|complet|without|the|record|of|his|career
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and fifty-three
alfr|a|bradshaw
alfr|archer|bradshaw|who|is|a|welltodo|agriculturalist|resid|in
woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|is|descend|from|one|of|the|oldest
and|best|famili|of|southern|new|jersey|they|are|of|irish|extract|and
were|among|the|earliest|settler|of|burlington|counti|the|first|record
we|have|of|the|famili|is|that|of|paul|and|mari|bradshaw|whose|son|henri
born|decemb|seventeen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-four|die|august|i|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|he|was|marri|novem
ber|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-six|to|sarah|coxa|a|daughter|of|richard|and|elizabeth|cox
born|march|twenty-five|one thousand, seven hundred and forty-three|their|son|mose|who|was|born|septemb|ten|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-seven
and|die|decemb|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-five|was|marrieil|januari|six|one thousand, eight hundred and three|to|abigail
well|who|was|born|novemb|four|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-four|the|children|of|this|coupl|were
as|follow|henri|born|april|six|one thousand, eight hundred and four|marri|charlott|paul|and|had
nine|children|three|of|whom|are|li|daniel|born|may|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and five|was
never|marri|ira|born|octob|two|one thousand, eight hundred and seven|marri|rebecca|clark|had
six|children|and|was|a|farmer|in|camden|counti|new|jersey|sarah|born
februari|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|marri|thoma|wolf|had|three|children|and|live
in|woolwich|township|gloucest|counti|ami|born|march|three|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve|die|in
childhood|mose|born|may|fourteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|die|januari|eighteen|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|meriba|c
born|april|three|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen|marri|william|stewart|had|five|children|and|live|in
greenwich|township|gloucest|counti|edward|born|septemb|ten
one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|die|in|childhood|joseph|born|april|three|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|also|die|in|childhood
charl|born|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty|was|kill|by|the|kick|of|a|hors|sep
tember|six|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|abigail|born|novemb|five|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|marri|eli|robert
had|two|children|and|is|still|live|in|greenwich|township|gloucest
counti
of|this|larg|famili|mose|who|was|born|in|greenwich|township|glou
cester|counti|new|jersey|marri|ann|rulon|daughter|of|jonathan
rulon|they|had|the|follow|children|louisa|who|die|in|childhood
mari|ellen|widow|of|the|late|henri|b|hendrickson|of|woolwich|town
ship|carolin|who|die|when|four|year|old|alfr|a|the|subject|of
this|sketch|elmer|who|is|proprietor|of|a|store|in|mickleton|east|green
wich|township|and|marri|anna|cooper|of|mickleton|new|jersey|by
whom|he|has|one|child|lilli|c|laban|l|who|marri|margaret|robert
son|and|has|two|children|william|m|and|jessi|lee|and|is|a|physician
locat|at|no|fifty-five|east|72nd|street|new|york|citi|and|anni|r|who|mar
rie|jame|b|cooper|a|storekeep|of|mickleton|new|jersey
alfr|a|bradshaw|was|born|in|woolwich|township|novemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven
and|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|that|local|he|has|alway
follow|farm|and|is|now|occupi|the|old|homestead|which|he|has
five hundred and fifty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
brought|to|an|excel|state|of|cultiv|and|has|fit|up|with|modern
improv|he|is|progress|in|his|idea|and|adopt|new|method
wlienev|he|find|them|satisfactori|and|in|this|way|keep|abreast|of|the
time
mr|bradshaw|was|marri|decemb|two|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|to|mari|l|hendrickson
daughter|of|jacob|j|and|ann|paul|hendrickson|of|woolwich|township
our|subject|and|his|wife|have|two|children|isaac|h|and|lizzi|g|mr
bradshaw|is|a|member|of|the|swedesboro|grang|and|of|the|ancient
order|of|the|unit|workmen|he|is|a|loyal|citizen|and|interest|in
everyth|that|pertain|to|the|welfar|and|progress|of|his|communit|he
has|serv|his|township|for|six|year|as|a|member|of|the|township|committe
william|clark|hunter
in|fratern|circl|mr|hunter|is|wide|known|throughout|the|countri
as|a|promot|of|the|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|and|in|swedesboro|he
is|account|a|lead|busi|man|have|for|a|number|of|year|occupi
the|posit|of|travel|repres|for|the|hous|of|john|luca
compani|the|wellknown|paint|manufactur|he|was|born|in|chatham
chester|counti|pennsylvania|on|the|30th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|and|is|a|son|of
william|c|and|isabella|w|wiley|hunter|the|former|a|nativ|of|ireland
and|the|latter|of|philadelphia|pennsylvania|his|parent|were|of|scotch
irish|origin|and|the|father|belong|to|the|famous|bucktail|regiment|dur
ing|the|civil|war|he|serv|as|it|quartermast|and|remain|at|the|front
until|the|cessat|of|hostil|but|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|his|wife|long|surviv
him|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|at|the|age|of|sixtyeight|year|in|their|famili
were|six|children|name|christiana|w|wife|of|oscar|s|seller|of|ches
ter|counti|pennsylvania|john|m|a|carpent|and|contractor|live|in
swedesboro|elizabeth|wife|of|henri|burk|of|philadelphia|william|c
isabella|w|who|die|at|the|age|of|fourteen|year|and|walter|who|occupi
the|posit|of|ship|clerk|for|the|firm|of|john|luca|compani
mr|hunter|of|this|review|obtain|his|preliminari|educ|in|the
public|school|of|chester|counti|pennsylvania|aftenvard|was|a|student|in
professor|huggin|school|in|mt|joy|pennsylvania|and|complet|his|edu
cation|in|the|soldier|orphan|school|of|mt|joy|pennsylvania|in|which
he|was|graduat|with|the|class|of|one hundred and eighty-seven|one|in|the|meantim|his|mother
and|eldest|brother|had|remov|to|swedesboro|and|when|he|had|left|the
schoolroom|he|accept|a|posit|as|bookkeep|in|the|offic|of|john
moor|of|that|town|with|whom|he|remain|for|a|vear|after|a|short
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and fifty-five
time|spent|as|clerk|in|the|store|of|ephraim|water|he|enter|tipon|an
apprenticeship|at|the|carpent|s|trade|and|was|thus|engag|for|two|year
on|the|expir|of|that|period|he|secur|a|situat|in|the|store|of|charl
d|lippencott|where|he|continu|for|three|year|and|then|spent|three
year|in|the|employ|of|a|w|wright|compani|of|philadelphia|act
as|salesman|in|the|store|a|part|of|the|time|and|as|travel|repres
on|the|road|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|he|enter|the|employ|of|john|luca|compani
and|after|six|month|spent|in|the|offic|was|place|upon|the|road|and|has
sinc|continu|to|sell|good|for|that|hous|to|the|trade|at|first|his|terri
tori|includ|new|jersey|delawar|maryland|pennsylvania|west|vir
ginia|virginia|north|carolina|and|south|carolina|and|in|those|state|he
laid|the|foundat|for|such|an|extens|patronag|that|ten|men|are|now
requir|to|control|the|trade|mr|hunter|is|recogn|as|one|of|the
most|abl|travel|salesmen|repres|the|paint|busi|in|the|unit
state|and|therefor|command|a|veri|excel|salari|his|twentyon
year|connect|with|the|firm|of|john|luca|compani|plain|indic
his|fidel|to|the|hous|and|his|mark|abil|in|the|line|of|his|chosen
vocat|his|manner|is|alway|genial|courteous|and|oblig|and|as
his|busi|method|are|strict|reliabl|he|has|won|the|confid|of|the
trade|in|an|unusu|degre
mr|hunter|was|marri|on|the|28th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|to|miss|johanna
b|fox|a|daughter|of|georg|fox|of|harrisonvill|new|jersey|and|to
them|have|been|born|two|childreiir|herbert|f|and|iren|b|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he
erect|a|beauti|resid|on|railroad|avenu|in|swedesboro|and|this
attract|home|is|note|for|it|gracious|hospit|while|in|social|circl
mr|and|mrs|hunter|occupi|a|veri|promin|posit
mr|hunter|has|a|wide|acquaint|in|fratern|circl|and|enjoy|the
warm|regard|of|all|with|whom|he|has|thus|been|brought|in|contact|he
is|past|master|of|swedesboro|lodg|no|one hundred and fifty-seven|f|a|m|also|belong|to
osceola|lodg|no|seventy-five|i|o|o|f|and|diamond|council|junior|order|of
unit|american|mechan|he|is|a|member|of|the|son|of|veteran|and
was|former|captain|of|philadelphia|camp|no|sixteen|while|he|has|been
activ|in|all|these|order|his|chief|interest|is|center|in|the|knight|of|the
golden|eagl|and|in|coeur|de|lion|castl|no|thirty-six|in|which|he|has|fill
all|the|offic|and|was|chosen|grand|chief|of|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was
appoint|suprem|chief|of|the|unit|state|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and|to|that
offic|was|elect|on|the|loth|of|octob|of|the|same|year|he|was|a|most
effici|and|capabl|suprem|chief|and|dure|his|incumb|he|visit
mani|state|in|his|offici|capac|his|keen|discrimin|his|unfaihng
courtesi|and|his|deep|interest|in|the|order|made|him|particular|well
five hundred and fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
qualifi|to|advanc|it|interest|and|lie|is|therefor|wide|and|favor
known|throughout|the|organ|in|polit|mr|hunter|is|a|stanch
republican|and|repres|his|township|on|the|execut|board|of|the
counti|he|has|frequent|dedin|polit|honor|prefer|to|devot
his|energi|to|other|duti|in|swedesboro|where|he|has|so|long|made|his
home|he|is|veri|popular|and|his|circl|of|friend|throughout|the|countri|is
almost|coequal|with|his|circl|of|acquaint
charl|m|wilkin
the|growth|and|upbuild|of|the|connnun|depend|upon|the|effort
of|it|enterpris|citizen|for|prosper|is|due|to|commerci|activitv
mr|wilkin|is|today|a|wellknown|repres|of|the|industri|affair
of|philadelphia|but|maintain|his|resid|at|wenonah|he|was|born|in
the|former|place|septemb|ii|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|is|a|repres|of|a|promin
old|famili|of|the|keyston|state
his|parent|were|joseph|l|and|mardi|v|mansur|vilkin|on|the
patern|side|he|is|descend|from|english|quaker|stock|his|ancestor|lia
ing|locat|in|pennsylvania|and|new|jersey|in|the|earli|part|of|the|eight
eenth|centuri|on|the|matern|side|he|is|of|frenchhuguenot|ancestri
but|he|take|greater|pride|in|the|fact|that|he|is|an|american|rather|than|in
ani|knowledg|of|his|ancestor|of|whom|his|inform|is|limit|the
patern|grandfath|charl|wilkin|was|a|nativ|of|montgomeri|counti
pennsylvania|joseph|l|wilkin|the|father|of|our|subject|was|ixmu|in
philadelphia|and|engag|in|coalmin|and|ship|he|was|a|veri
promin|mason|and|a|wellknown|and|high|respect|citizen|he|mar
rie|mardi|mansur|a|daughter|of|robert|mansur|and|they|becam|the
parent|of|eleven|children|five|son|and|six|daughter|of|whom|seven
are|yet|live
charl|m|wilkin|spent|his|boyhood|day|in|brooklyn|new|york|to
which|place|he|remov|with|his|father|s|famili|in|i860|he|attend|the
public|and|privat|school|of|new|york|and|brooklyn|his|father|was
engag|in|the|wholesal|coal|trade|in|the|former|citi|but|met|with|busi
revers|and|with|his|famili|return|to|philadelphia|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|his|ill
and|death|threw|the|burden|of|the|famili|support|on|the|older|children|and
thus|they|were|compel|to|seek|employ|charl|m|wilkin|secur
a|situat|in|a|wholesal|drug|hous|in|philadelphia|where|he|remain
for|sever|year|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|he|enter|the|employ|of|the|wellknown|firm
of|partrick|carter|manufactur|of|electr|suppli|as|bookkeep
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and fifty-seven
his|younger|brother|e|ward|wilkin|be|an|employ|of|the|firm|at
that|time|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|the|wilkin|brother|were|admit|to|a|partnership|in
the|busi|and|when|within|a|year|jame|partrick|the|founder|of|the
hous|die|his|interest|was|purchas|by|the|messr|wilkin|tlie|busi
is|now|carri|on|under|the|firm|name|of|partrick|carter|wilkin|our
subject|and|his|brother|own|twothird|of|the|enterpris|of|which|they
are|the|manag
the|busi|career|of|c|m|wilkin|has|been|a|veri|prosper|one
he|is|a|man|of|excel|busi|and|execut|abil|and|his|effort|have
been|by|no|mean|confin|to|one|line|he|is|now|the|presid|of|the|na
tional|electr|trade|associ|an|influenti|organ|compos
of|the|lead|firm|in|this|line|in|the|unit|state|with|headquart|in
chicago|he|is|also|a|promin|member|of|the|nation|associ|of
manufactur|and|is|connect|with|other|busi|and|trade|associ
throughout|the|countri|his|long|identif|with|the|electr|trade|has
made|him|well|known|in|such|circl|throughout|the|unit|state|and
canada
in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|mr|wilkin|took|up|his|resid|in|wenonah|and|has
sinc|been|promin|identifi|with|everi|movement|for|the|advanc
of|the|public|welfar|give|freeli|of|his|time|and|money|in|support|of|all
measur|calcul|to|prove|of|general|good|in|polit|he|is|a|stalwart
republican|take|an|activ|interest|in|the|polit|of|the|counti|and|state
and|keep|well|inform|on|the|issu|of|the|day|the|becaus|of|educ
find|in|him|a|warm|friend|and|dure|his|incumb|as|presid|of|the
school|board|the|beauti|schoolhous|which|is|the|pride|of|wenonah|was
erect|larg|through|his|influenc|and|effort|he|has|serv|for|mani
year|as|a|member|of|the|borough|council|and|at|the|elect|held|in|the
spring|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|was|chosen|as|mayor|mr|wilkin|is|the|presid|of|the
aaenonah|librari|associ|of|which|he|was|one|of|the|organ|he
has|done|effect|servic|for|his|parti|as|a|member|of|the|republican|counti
execut|committe|for|gloucest|counti|has|been|chosen|as|a|deleg|to
state|and|congression|convent|and|was|a|member|of|the|st|loui|con
vention|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|which|nomin|mckinley|for|the|first|time
on|the|two|one|st|of|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|mr|wilkin|was|unit|in|marriag|to
harriet|c|littl|of|hudson|new|york|a|daughter|of|georg|l|littl
who|came|from|a|repres|old|new|england|famili|that|was|estab
lish|on|the|bank|of|the|hudson|river|at|the|close|of|the|revolutionarv
war|the|home|life|of|mr|and|mrs|wilkin|has|been|an|except|v
happi|one|and|their|beauti|resid|is|note|for|it|gracious|and|cordial
hospit|for|it|good|cheer|and|good|fellowship|they|have|two|daugh
five hundred and fifty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
ter|julia|rose|a|student|in|bortlentown|colleg|and|edna|browninsj|a
pupil|in|the|school|in|wenonah
a|man|of|scholar|attain|and|tast|mr|wilkin|has|one|of|the
finest|privat|librari|to|be|found|in|south|jersey|he|has|alway|been|an
extens|reader|and|is|an|enthusiast|lover|and|collector|of|book|his
librari|contain|sever|thousand|volum|with|the|content|of|which|he|is
perfect|familiar|and|his|knowledg|of|book|and|his|good|judgment|have
enabl|him|to|place|upon|his|shelv|mani|rare|and|eleg|exampl|of|the
bookmak|art|some|of|which|can|be|duplic|onli|at|great|cost|his
librari|cover|everi|branch|of|literatur|and|repres|a|collect|made
dure|more|than|twenti|year|embrac|a|wide|rang|of|subject|his
comprehens|familiar|with|book|has|enabl|him|to|select|them|with
definit|purpos|and|to|classifi|them|so|that|one|seek|inform|along
certain|line|may|easili|find|the|necessari|volum
mr|wilkin|is|connect|with|the|presbyterian|church|and|is|activ|in
the|various|depart|of|church|work|serv|as|an|elder|of|the|church
and|the|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|dr|t|l|cuyler|has|said
charact|is|not|determin|by|a|singl|act|but|by|habitu|conduct|and
an|evid|of|mr|wilkin|honor|and|well|spent|life|is|found|in|the|high
regard|in|which|he|is|uniform|held|by|those|among|whom|he|has|live|for
mani|year|he|has|been|an|import|factor|in|busi|circl|and|his
popular|is|well|deserv|as|in|him|are|embrac|the|characterist|of|an
unbend|integr|unab|energi|and|industri|that|never|flag
e|ward|wilkin
the|unostentnfior|routin|of|privat|life|although|of|vast|import
to|the|welfar|of|the|major|has|not|figur|to|ani|great|extent|in|the
page|of|histori|but|the|name|of|men|who|have|distinguish|themselv
by|the|possess|of|those|qualiti|of|charact|which|main|contribut
to|the|success|of|privat|life|and|to|the|public|stabil|and|who|have|en
joy|the|respect|and|confid|of|those|around|them|should|not|be|per
mit|to|perish|their|exampl|is|more|valuabl|to|the|major|of
reader|than|that|of|hero|warrior|statesmen|and|diplomat|as|they
indic|pat|of|use|which|lead|to|gain|the|livelihood|for|which
the|greater|number|of|human|must|strive|mr|ilkin|is|one|who|in
the|busi|affair|of|life|has|gain|advanc|and|by|reason|of|his
mark|abil|in|his|chosen|call|has|becom|known|throughout|the
countri|in|electr|circl|he|is|now|a|partner|in|the|firm|of|partrick
y|fdm
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and fifty-nine
carter|wilkin|manufactur|of|and|dealer|in|electr|suppli|in
philadelphia
mr|wilkin|was|born|in|that|citi|march|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|his|famili|histori
is|given|in|the|preced|sketch|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he|becam|a|clerk|in|the|hous
where|he|is|now|a|partner|his|close|applic|to|busi|the|abil|with
which|he|master|electr|work|in|all|it|depart|and|his|mark|fidel
iti|led|to|his|promot|from|time|to|time|his|brother|charl|m|wilkin
had|becom|an|employ|of|the|firm|in|the|capac|of|bookkeep|and|in
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|both|were|admit|to|a|partnership|and|the|firm|has|sinc|been|known
as|partrick|carter|wilkin|the|busi|was|origin|establish|in
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|by|jame|partrick|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|the|present|partner|con
duct|trade|under|the|abov|firm|name|are|franklin|s|carter|charl
m|wilkin|and|e|ward|wilkin|all|of|whom|have|been|connect|with
the|hous|from|it|earli|day|this|is|one|of|the|oldest|and|largest|hous
in|the|unit|state|manufactur|electr|suppli
e|ward|wilkin|is|a|practic|electrician|thorough|familiar|with
all|branch|of|the|busi|and|has|travel|all|over|the|countri|in|the
interest|of|his|firm|pie|has|the|distinct|of|be|the|first|man|who
ever|travel|for|the|express|purpos|of|sell|electr|suppli|he|is
a|charter|member|of|the|electr|light|associ|of|the|unit|state
and|was|the|prime|mover|and|activ|spirit|in|the|organ|of|the
nation|electr|suppli|dealer|associ|the|firm|manufactur
and|deal|in|electr|suppli|and|their|busi|has|now|assum|ex
tensiv|proport|their|output|be|veri|larg|they|have|an|exhibit
of|good|in|pari|cuba|venezuela|and|china|and|the|hous|sustain|an
unassail|reput|for|reliabl|mr|wilkin|has|entir|charg|of
the|manufactur|and|sale|depart|of|the|firm
in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|wilkin|and
miss|anna|m|winship|a|daughter|of|e|r|winship|of|philadelphia|and
they|now|have|three|children|lena|w|a|student|in|bordentown|col
lege|myra|d|and|warren|w|who|attend|the|wenonah|school|the
famili|are|member|of|the|presbyterian|church|of|wenonah|in|which
mr|wilkin|is|serv|as|a|truste|social|he|is|connect|with|the
mason|fratern|the|independ|order|of|odd|fellow|and|the|junior
order|of|american|mechan|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|franklin
institut|he|has|a|beauti|home|in|wenonah|and|it|gracious|hos
pital|has|made|it|a|favorit|resort|with|the|mani|friend|of|the|familv
mr|wilkin|is|a|republican|in|polit|and|while|not|take|an|activ
part|in|polit|work|has|alway|been|zealous|for|the|success|of|his|partv
he|has|twice|been|elect|on|the|republican|ticket|as|commission|of
56o|biograph|histori|of|the|first
appeal|he|is|an|ardent|sportsman|with|gun|and|rod|and|everi|season
goe|in|pursuit|wherev|game|can|be|found|he|is|also|an|enthusiast
lover|of|field|sport|and|athlet
robert|a|brandiff
robert|a|brandiff|is|a|contractor|and|builder|resid|in|salem|salem
counti|new|jersey|who|has|won|an|enviabl|reput|in|his|line|of
work|as|a|skill|mechan|who|put|his|best|effort|in|the|work|befor|him
he|is|a|son|of|john|and|ann|atkinson|brandifi|and|was|born|decemb
two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|in|elsinboro|township|this|counti
john|brandif|was|a|nativ|of|lower|penn|s|neck|and|lost|his|father
when|he|was|a|small|lad|he|work|on|a|farm|for|mani|year|but|later
move|to|this|citi|where|he|is|at|present|engag|in|conduct|a|groceri
he|is|a|democrat|and|has|held|a|number|of|local|offic|he|is|a|free
holder|and|is|enthusiast|in|uphold|his|view|he|is|also|a|member|of
the|improv|order|of|red|men|as|his|life|companion|he|chose|miss
ann|atkinson|and|to|them|were|born|five|son|and|three|daughter|viz
charl|who|marri|miss|ella|dunham|and|follow|the|trade|of|a|mason
carolin|who|marri|john|pedrick|a|salesman|and|farmer|john|h|a
canmak|who|marri|miss|maggi|franklin|robert|a|our|subject
elizabeth|who|marri|william|townsend|a|glassblow|frank|a|can
maker|who|marri|mari|slape|luci|who|marri|norman|woodsid
a|glassblow|and|raymond|who|marri|miss|emma|bacon|the
mother|die|at|the|age|of|sixtyf|year|and|the|father|at|the|age|of
sixtyseven
robert|a|brandiff|spent|his|boyhood|upon|the|farm|and|becam
fainiliar|with|everi|detail|of|the|work|there|after|follow|this|occupa
tion|for|a|few|year|he|learn|the|trade|of|mason|and|for|eight|year
work|at|his|trade|as|a|joumeyman|he|then|engag|for|himself|as|a
contractor|and|builder|and|obtain|all|the|work|he|could|do|he|form
a|partnership|with|joseph|h|boon|and|they|now|do|a|great|deal|of|both
citi|and|countri|work|employ|twenti|men|and|be|busi|all|the|time
they|were|the|first|contractor|engag|in|the|construct|of|fort|mott
and|were|also|employ|in|build|fort|delawar|at|delawar|citi|and
sever|of|the|best|bridg|of|this|countri|are|the|work|of|his|skill|among
them|hancock|s|bridg|hook|and|lower|canawa|bridg|and|a|number
of|other|his|work|is|alway|satisfactori|to|his|employ|and|a|stand
recommend|of|his|abil|he|is|at|present|engag|in|the|erect|of
the|shaffer|hous
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and sixty-one
januari|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|were|celebr|the|nuptial|of|mr|brandiff|and|miss
ann|parker|a|daughter|of|wesley|parker|five|children|have|bless
their|home|and|ad|their|bright|presenc|to|the|cheer|firesid|two
of|whom|have|preced|their|parent|to|their|heaven|home|there|to|await
a|joy|reunion|they|are|laura|deceas|carri|rebecca|jenni|de
ceas|and|wesley|mr|brandifif|is|connect|with|a|number|of|fratern
order|be|a|member|of|the|knight|of|the|golden|eagl|and|washington
lodg|l|o|o|f|and|is|interest|in|the|franklin|build|and|loan
associ|he|lend|a|readi|assist|to|ani|movement|for|the|advanc
ment|of|public|prosper|and|is|the|kind|of|citizen|that|is|of|materi|help
to|ani|communiti
william|j|frea
the|record|of|the|live|of|our|forefath|are|of|interest|to|the|modern
citizen|not|alon|for|their|histor|valu|but|also|for|the|inspir|and
exampl|they|afford|yet|we|need|not|look|exclus|to|the|past|al
though|surround|may|differ|the|essenti|condit|of|human|life|are
ever|the|same|and|a|man|can|learn|from|the|success|of|those|around|him
if|he|will|heed|the|obvious|lesson|contain|in|their|histori|turn|to|the
life|record|of|william|johnson|frea|studi|care|the|plan|and|method
he|has|follow|and|you|will|learn|of|superior|power|of|manag|and
that|keen|percept|untir|energi|unbound|enterpris|and|great
sagac|have|been|the|import|factor|in|his|success|he|is|now|a|mem
ber|of|the|firm|of|stile|frea|proprietor|of|the|lead|drygood|hous
of|salem|and|is|accord|by|his|fellow|townsmen|a|foremost|place|in|the
rank|of|the|repres|busi|men|of|the|citi
mr|frea|was|born|in|elsinboro|township|salem|counti|juli|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine
and|is|a|son|of|johnson|and|elizabeth|o|hewitt|frea|the|famili|is
of|german|origin|and|was|found|in|america|by|henri|frea|the|great
grandfath|of|our|subject|who|cross|the|atlant|to|the|new|world
the|grandfath|judg|henri|frea|resid|in|lower|neck|and|salem
township|this|counti|but|die|in|the|villag|of|salem|he|was|a|farmer
by|occup|own|some|valuabl|farm|properti|was|an|extens
realest|dealer|and|a|man|of|consider|mean|his|polit|support
was|given|the|democraci|and|he|took|an|activ|interest|in|promot|the
growth|and|success|of|the|parti|he|was|also|honor|with|polit|ofific
and|serv|as|sheriff|as|well|as|judg|of|salem|counti|his|decis|on|the
bench|were|mark|by|imparti|and|few|appeal|were|ever|taken|there
from|in|busi|matter|as|well|he|was|known|for|his|thorough|relia
five hundred and sixty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
biliti|and|good|judgment|in|polit|he|was|a|democrat|and|in|religion
belief|was|a|baptist|his|children|ten|in|number|were|henri|jame
reuben|johnson|william|daniel|samuel|elizabeth|bacon|ann|shep
pard|and|luci|fox
johnson|frea|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|lower|penn|s|neck
township|and|afterward|follow|farm|in|that|township|and|in|man
ton|penn|s|neck|and|elsinboro|township|he|spent|his|last|day|in
salem|and|was|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|brick|for|a|time|but|after
ward|live|retir|in|polit|he|was|a|democrat|and|was|at|one|time|a
candid|for|the|general|assembl|in|his|religi|faith|he|was|a|baptist
his|famili|number|four|children|one|of|the|son|henri|frea|marri
elizabeth|hand|and|had|four|children|he|was|a|drygood|merchant|and
is|now|deceas
william|j|frea|attend|the|public|school|of|salem|until|twelv|year
of|age|and|soon|afterward|start|out|to|earn|his|own|livelihood|and|aid
in|the|support|of|his|widow|mother|he|was|first|employ|in|the|craven
glass|work|at|salem|where|he|remain|three|year|and|then|accept
a|clerkship|in|the|employ|of|his|brother|in|the|drygood|busi|and|there
remain|for|fifteen|year|dure|which|time|he|master|the|busi|in
everi|detail|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|he|becam|associ|with|mr|stile|and|the|firm|of
stile|frea|has|from|the|begin|maintain|a|place|in|the|foremost
rank|of|the|mercantil|interest|of|the|citi|they|are|now|conduct
the|most|extens|drygood|busi|in|salem|and|one|of|the|largest|in
southern|new|jersey|and|employ|a|larg|corp|of|clerk|their|salesroom
which|is|twentyf|by|one|hundr|feet|in|dimens|is|fit|up|in
modem|metropolitan|style|with|all|the|latest|improv|and|conveni
enc|their|stock|embrac|everyth|found|in|a|firstclass|drygood
establish|and|their|trade|has|grown|to|mammoth|proport|for|a
citi|the|size|of|salem|they|have|recent|extend|the|field|of|their|labor
by|ad|a|new|and|import|depart|to|their|busi|the|manufac
ture|of|ladi|wrapper|this|furnish|employ|to|thirti|peopl|and
is|ad|materi|to|the|incom|of|the|firm
in|his|polit|view|mr|frea|is|a|stalwart|democrat|and|is|now|serv
ing|as|a|member|of|the|board|of|chosen|freehold|from|the|west|ward|of
salem|he|also|held|that|offic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|at|dififer|time|has|been|a
deleg|to|the|various|convent|of|his|parti|he|is|a|member|of|the
hook|and|ladder|compani|and|is|the|secretari|of|the|board|of|trade
social|he|is|connect|with|ivanho|council|no|five|k|g|e|fenwick
lodg|i|o|o|f|and|the|ancient|order|of|unit|workmen
on|the|one|2th|of|may|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|mr|frea|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and sixty-three
dora|b|leigh|a|daughter|of|joseph|leigh|of|philadelphia|pennsylvania
and|they|have|three|children|maud|l|russel|conwel|and|norman|s
the|last|name|die|in|infanc|the|famili|occupi|a|promin|posit
in|social|circl|and|the|frea|household|is|note|for|it|hospit|such
in|brief|is|the|life|histori|of|one|of|the|most|success|and|enterpris|mer
chant|of|salem|he|enjoy|the|well|earn|distinct|of|be|what|the
public|call|a|selfmad|man|his|career|has|been|remark|success
chiefli|by|reason|of|his|natur|abil|and|his|thorough|insight|into|the
busi|in|which|as|a|young|salesman|he|embark|his|strict|integr
financi|conservat|and|busi|judgment|have|alway|been|so|univ
salli|recogn|that|mr|frea|has|enjoy|the|public|confid|to|an
enviabl|degre|and|natur|this|has|brought|him|such|a|lucrat|patron
age|that|through|time|of|general|prosper|and|general|advers|alik|he
has|wit|a|steadi|increas|in|his|busi|until|today|it|is|one|of|the
most|flourish|in|it|line|in|southern|new|jersey
he|also|has|ever|had|a|hearti|concern|for|the|public|welfar|it|is|true
that|his|chief|lifework|has|beeii|that|of|a|remark|success|merchant
but|the|rang|of|his|activ|and|the|scope|of|his|influenc|have|reach
far|beyond|this|special|field|he|belong|to|that|class|of|men|who|wield|a
power|that|is|all|the|more|potent|from|the|fact|that|it|is|moral|rather|than
polit|and|is|exercis|for|the|public|weal|rather|than|for|person|end
regard|as|a|citizen|and|in|his|social|relat|he|belong|to|that|public
spirit|use|and|help|type|of|men|whose|ambit|and|desir|are
center|and|direct|in|those|channel|through|which|flow|the|greatest|and
most|perman|good|to|the|greatest|number
harri|mccollist
this|gentleman|is|well|known|in|profession|circl|in|swedesboro
where|he|is|engag|in|teach|instrument|music|he|was|born|in
bridgeport|new|jersey|octob|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and|is|a|son|of|benjamin|f
and|charlott|ann|justic|mccollist|the|famili|is|of|irish|extract
the|earli|authent|record|of|which|our|subject|has|cogniz|state|that
john|mccollist|and|his|wife|rebecca|were|resid|of|salem|counti
their|son|isaac|mccollist|was|a|weaver|by|trade|but|in|later|life|follow
farm|he|was|marri|in|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-three|to|mari|stiver|and|his|death|occur|in
sharptown|new|jersey|august|nineteen|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|while|his|wife|pass|away|sep
tember|seventeen|one thousand, eight hundred and six|their|children|were|john|who|was|born|march|twenty-eight
five hundred and sixty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-four|and|die|march|six|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-six|archibald|who|was|born|novemb|fifteen
one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-five|and|die|juli|twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and seventeen|beulah|who|was|born|august|two|one thousand, seven hundred and ninety-eight|and
die|august|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and nineteen|mari|who|was|born|april|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and one|and|die|in|earli
childhood|and|isaac|who|was|born|juli|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and four|and|die|august|ig
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|the|father|of|this|famili|was|again
marri|march|thirteen|one thousand, eight hundred and nine|his|second|union|be|with|elizabeth|keen
daughter|of|elijah|and|mari|keen|she|was|born|februari|fourteen|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty|and
die|decemb|sixteen|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|by|her|marriag|she|becam|the|mother|of|five
children|elijah|who|was|born|march|twenty-six|one thousand, eight hundred and ten|die|on|the|3d|of|novem
ber|of|the|same|year|rachel|born|septemb|thirteen|one hundred and eighty-one|one|marri|matthew
duboi|and|die|in|everett|pennsylvania|octob|five|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|mose|born
april|fifteen|one thousand, eight hundred and fourteen|die|februari|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty|aaron|born|septemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and sixteen
die|octob|two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|benjamin|franklin|was|bom|octob|i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighteen
the|last|nain|the|father|of|our|subject|acquir|his|educ|in|the
common|school|of|salem|counti|and|in|earli|life|studi|survey|which
he|has|follow|at|interv|throughout|his|busi|career|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight|he
began|teach|school|and|was|thus|employ|for|two|year|in|sharptown
new|jersey|and|spent|one|year|as|a|teacher|two|mile|abov|penn|grove
and|two|year|in|that|town|he|repres|salem|counti|in|the|legislatur
although|he|accept|the|offic|much|againt|his|desir|on|the|expir
of|his|term|he|again|resum|teach|be|connect|with|the|educ
interest|near|penn|grove|for|one|year|he|afterward|spent|five|year|as|a
teacher|in|the|town|was|for|three|year|a|teacher|in|bridgeport|and|then
went|to|illinoi|where|he|taught|for|two|year|be|an|abl|math
matician|he|was|then|invit|by|benjamin|naylor|author|of|naylor|s
speedi|calcul|to|join|him|in|conduct|a|school|eight|mile|from
lafayett|indiana|there|he|remain|for|one|year|dure|which|time|he
form|a|key|to|the|calcul|just|mention|subsequ|in|connect
with|mr|naylor|and|william|b|lauler|he|conduct|a|larg|school|in
richland|iowa|for|three|year|his|student|come|from|that|state|illinoi
and|indiana|the|outbreak|of|the|civil|war|howev|serious|interf
with|the|success|of|the|institut|so|mr|mccollist|return|to|bridg
port|new|jersey|where|he|was|engag|in|teach|for|three|year|sub
sequentlv|he|was|a|teacher|in|swedesboro|for|one|year|and|for|one|year
conduct|a|privat|school|in|battentown|on|the|expir|of|that|period
he|again|return|to|bridgeport|where|a|fiveyear|servic|in|the|school
room|complet|his|educ|work|soon|afterward|he|remov|to
swedesboro|where|he|has|sinc|earn|on|a|conveyanc|and|survey
busi|in|this|line|his|long|experi|with|calcul|prove|of|great
valu|to|him|he|won|an|enviabl|reput|in|connect|with|educ
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and sixty-five
work|have|the|abil|to|impart|clear|and|concis|to|other|the|knowl
edg|he|had|acquir
on|the|one|6th|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-six|mr|mccollist|was|unit|in|marriag|to
miss|charlott|ann|justic|a|daughter|of|nichola|justic|of|pedrickstown
new|jersey|the|children|born|of|this|union|are|elizabeth|who|was|born
januari|twenty-one|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-seven|becam|the|wife|of|jame|sweeni|and|is|now|deceas
anna|who|was|born|decemb|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|is|the|wife|of|thoma|norcross
of|swedesboro|mari|who|was|born|may|three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|is|the|wife|of|william
norcross|of|the|same|town|georg|who|was|born|august|six|i860|and
die|octob|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-one|and|harri|the|subject|of|this|review
the|last|name|obtain|his|educ|in|the|public|school|of|bridg
port|and|woodburi|new|jersey|he|studi|music|in|an|institut|in
philadelphia|and|also|under|a|number|of|privat|instructor|attain|great
profici|in|the|art|divin|of|late|year|he|has|devot|his|energi
to|piano|and|organ|instruct|have|through|the|past|decad|been|re
gard|as|one|of|the|leader|in|this|profess|in|new|jersey|he|was|a
deleg|to|the|nation|convent|of|the|music|teacher|associ|in
cincinnati|in|one hundred and eighty-nine|one|and|hold|a|veri|promin|posit|in|profession
circl
mr|mccollist|was|marri|novemb|seven|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|to|miss|mari|c|clark
daughter|of|benjamin|c|clark|of|swedesboro|and|they|now|have|one|child
perciv|mr|mccollist|is|a|member|of|the|ancient|order|of|unit
workmen|and|in|his|polit|affili|is|a|republican|he|and|his|wife
attend|the|episcop|church|and|are|veri|promin|in|social|circl|while
their|own|home|is|note|for|it|kind|hospit
j|c|hazelton
j|c|hazelton|a|well|known|citizen|of|mullica|hill|was|born|in|that
place|decemb|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|his|father|j|w|and|his|grandfath|staci
hazelton|were|also|born|there|j|w|follow|the|occup|of|farm
and|at|one|time|was|a|larg|landown|he|was|a|promin|leatler|in|the
republican|parti|of|his|counti|and|was|onc|elect|to|the|unit|state
congress|in|religion|he|was|a|member|of|the|societi|of|friend|he|mar
rie|martha|allen|who|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|of|their|six|children|four|are|live
j|c|f|staci|live|at|woodstown|samuel|a|resid|at|monroevili
and|collin|live|at|whig|lane
the|subject|of|this|sketch|was|educ|at|the|common|school|spend
five hundred and sixty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
one|year|in|the|westchest|normal|state|school|his|life|has|been|spent
on|the|farm|and|he|has|alway|been|a|respect|citizen
mr|hazleton|is|a|member|of|the|methodist|church|and|superintend|of
the|sundayschool|for|ten|year|he|has|been|secretari|of|the|local|lodg
of|the|junior|order|of|american|mechan|he|was|marri|march|i6
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-two|to|elizabeth|a|daughter|of|j|j|foster|of|jefferson|and|they|have
two|children|collin|a|and|anna|f
henri|g|steelman
that|mr|steelman|is|one|of|the|lead|and|influenti|citizen|of|ocean
citi|is|evinc|by|the|fact|that|he|has|on|various|occas|been|call|to
public|offic|by|his|fellow|townsmen|who|recogn|his|worth|and|abil
and|gave|him|their|confid|and|support|he|well|deserv|mention
among|the|repres|men|of|cape|may|counti|and|it|is|with|pleasur
therefor|that|we|present|to|our|reader|the|record|of|his|career|he|was
born|on|the|3d|of|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|in|weymouth|atlant|counti|new
jersey|and|is|a|son|of|reuben|and|carolin|campbel|steelman
the|steelman|famili|is|of|english|origin|and|in|earli|coloni|day|the
first|repres|of|the|name|in|new|jersey|took|up|his|abod|in|steel
vill|atlant|counti|the|campbel|also|were|an|earli|coloni|famili
and|one|of|the|ancestor|of|our|subject|serv|as|a|privat|in|washington|s
armi|at|the|time|the|patriot|cross|the|delawar|at|trenton|new|jersey
frederick|steelman|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|resid|near|steel
vill|atlant|counti|then|a|part|of|gloucest|counti|where|he|own|a
veri|larg|tract|of|land|compris|sever|thousand|acr|he|marri
miss|scull|and|their|children|were|as|follow|joseph|the|grandfath|of
our|subject|was|the|eldest|sophia|becam|the|wife|of|david|smith|a|sailor
who|resid|at|steelvill|and|their|children|were|phoeb|the|wife|of|john
austin|and|after|his|death|she|becam|the|wife|of|ludlum|hand|sarah
the|wife|of|hosea|mclean|anna|the|wife|of|conley|somer|edward
ephraim|and|david|who|marri|miss|collin|judith|becam|the|wife
of|john|scull|a|farmer|and|their|children|were|susan|benjamin|richard
edward|and|amelia|the|wife|of|robert|maloney|experi|becam|the
wife|of|a|steehnan|and|they|had|one|son|jame|elizabeth|marri
jonathan|scull|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|die|when|fortyf
or|fifti|year|of|age
joseph|steelman|the|grandfath|was|born|near|steelvill|and|engag
in|the|lumber|busi|at|that|place|he|also|carri|on|agricultur|pur
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and sixty-seven
suit|and|was|a|man|of|industri|and|enterpris|he|had|eight|children
hannah|the|eldest|becam|the|wife|of|david|campbel|and|their|children
were|jame|john|hanson|peter|joseph|and|sarah|the|father|of|these
children|die|and|mrs|steelman|afterward|marri|david|harri|a|foundri
man|by|whom|she|had|two|children|priscilla|and|isaac|naomi|marri
sanford|updik|a|resid|of|greenwich|new|jersey|and|their|children
were|joseph|frederick|sanford|anna|and|laura|ann|becam|the|wife
of|lewi|gififord|and|after|his|death|wed|john|thoma|by|whom|she
had|twin|daughter|maggi|and|ida|roxanna|becam|the|wife|of|wilson
cramer|of|pennsylvania|and|had|a|son|joseph|margaret|marri|god
fred|estlow|a|resid|of|may|s|land|and|their|children|were|anna
lizzi|ida|winfield|and|margaret|joseph|now|deceas|had|the|follow
ing|name|children|william|reuben|deceas|elizabet|the|wife|of
alfr|lewi|rebecca|the|wife|of|david|everhart|and|alexina|who
marri|mr|smallwood|david|is|deceas|elizabeth|the|youngest
becam|mrs|smith
reuben|steelman|the|father|of|our|subject|was|born|in|steelvill|june
nine|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-four|he|was|a|sawyer|and|also|follow|the|lumber|busi|for|thirti
year|he|was|connect|with|that|busi|at|weymouth|but|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|has
been|a|resid|of|ocean|citi|where|he|is|now|live|a|retir|life|in|his
polit|affili|he|is|a|republican|and|in|his|religi|belief|is|a|metho
dist|he|marri|miss|carolin|campbel|who|die|april|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|at|the
age|of|sixtyf|year|in|their|famili|were|five|children|name|emma
marri|loui|risley|who|is|engag|in|the|yacht|busi|and|in|boat
build|jacob|is|the|second|maggi|is|the|wife|of|edward|r|sack|a
teacher|in|the|public|school|of|ocean|citi|and|they|have|two|children
emma|and|carolin|henri|g|is|the|fourth|in|order|of|birth|and|lizzi
is|the|wife|of|charl|s|pryor|a|lifeinsur|agent|at|atlant|citi|by
whom|she|has|a|daughter|rubi
henri|g|steelman|was|graduat|in|the|public|school|and|afterward
engag|in|work|in|a|store|in|weymouth|later|he|carri|on|the
groceri|busi|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|came|to|ocean|citi|where|he|immedi
establish|a|groceri|store|his|trade|constant|and|rapid|increas
until|his|quarter|becam|too|small|and|he|erect|a|larg|build|in|whic
he|success|conduct|his|store|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|when|he|sold|that|properti
to|the|knight|of|pythia|he|then|turn|his|attent|to|the|lumber
busi|at|ocean|citi|as|a|member|of|the|firm|of|h|c|steelman|com
pani|and|after|two|year|he|becam|a|member|of|the|firm|of|howel
steelman|his|partner|be|albeit|h|howel|a|year|later|howev|he
five hundred and sixty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
becam|connect|with|the|realest|interest|of|this|place|and|has|erect
here|a|number|of|resid
he|has|a|comprehens|knowledg|of|realti|valu|and|his|jud2|ment|is
safe|and|reliabl|so|that|he|has|made|judici|invest|which|have
brought|him|a|good|return|for|his|capit
on|the|4th|of|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|mr|steelman|marri|miss|ann|bour
geoi|and|in|their|pleasant|home|they|entertain|mani|of|the|best|peopl|of
ocean|citi|for|their|circl|of|friend|is|extens|mr|steelman|has|long
been|activ|identifi|with|public|affair|and|is|at|the|present|time|the
chief|of|the|fire|depart|here|from|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was|the|collector
and|treasur|of|the|citi|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|was|chosen|to|the|offic|of|mayor|his
administr|won|him|favor|comment|for|it|was|character|by
accuraci|and|reform|along|mani|line|he|has|frequent|been|a|deleg
to|various|convent|of|his|parti|and|his|counsel|have|been|regard|as
judici|in|the|interest|of|his|parti|social|he|is|connect|with|the
knight|of|pythia|the|junior|order|of|american|mechan|and|the|in
depend|order|of|odd|fellow|while|his|polit|support|is|in|harmoni
with|the|doctrin|of|the|republican|parti|in|all|the|duti|of|public|and
privat|life|he|has|been|found|faith|and|no|confid|repos|in|him|has
ever|been|betray
charl|a|j|johnson
one|of|the|popular|citizen|and|earli|resid|of|wildwood|is|charl
a|j|johnson|the|well|known|conductor|run|between|holli|beach|and
cape|may|court|hous|and|among|the|attach|of|the|road|there|is|no|one
held|in|higher|regard|he|was|born|in|denmark|septemb|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|a
son|of|peter|and|hinesa|snogsburgh|johnson|his|grandfath|also|live
in|denmark|and|there|peter|johnson|was|born|on|the|19th|of|april|one hundred and eighty-one|one
he|came|to|the|unit|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-four|locat|in|salem|new|jersey|where
he|engag|in|the|baker|s|busi|and|made|his|home|imtil|his|death|he
serv|in|the|armi|of|his|nativ|land|after|come|to|the|new|world|he
gave|his|polit|support|to|the|democraci|and|attend|the|baptist|church
but|held|membership|in|the|lutheran|church|he|die|april|20th|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine
and|his|wife|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|this|worthi|coupl|were|the|parent|of
seven|children|john|edward|who|marri|miss|rhinehart|and|resid|in
salem|they|have|a|daughter|mrs|lena|davi|and|had|a|son|john|who
was|a|member|of|the|ninth|new|jersey|infantri|and|was|shot|through|the
neck|in|a|raid|at|kingston|north|carolina|die|in|a|hospit|as|the|result
coxgressiox|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and sixty-nine
of|his|injuri|lena|the|second|of|the|famili|marri|harri|hinkl
and|had|two|children|ida|and|henri|her|second|husband|was|heniy
klincker|and|their|children|were|henrj|morri|and|julius|the|father|is
a|garden|and|baker|nichola|who|join|the|union|armi|in|the|civil
war|was|shot|through|the|head|at|the|battl|of|fair|oak|and|die|soon
after|he|first|enlist|for|three|month|sersic|and|at|the|expir|of
that|time|return|home|but|later|he|join|the|second|delawar|infantri
and|was|serv|with|the|second|regiment|of|california|volunt|under
colonel|baker|when|kill|he|was|onli|eighteen|year|of|age|and|for|the
braveri|which|he|display|on|the|field|of|battl|was|high|compliment
by|his|superior|offic|henrietta|is|the|wife|of|charl|h|thompson|a
printer|of|new|haven|connecticut|and|they|have|two|children|herbert
and|jenni|charl|is|the|next|of|the|famili|amelia|die|in|denmark|at
the|age|of|four|year|and|the|youngest|die|in|infanc
charl|a|j|johnson|pursu|his|educ|until|thirteen|year|of|age
and|was|then|thrown|upon|his|own|resourc|sinc|which|time|he|has|de
pend|entir|upon|his|own|effort|he|learn|the|baker|s|trade|in|salem
and|in|i86g|began|busi|on|his|own|account|success|conduct|a
bakeri|at|that|place|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|when|he|enter|the|employ|of|the|west
jersey|seashor|railroad|he|work|at|the|station|in|salem|and|later
becam|brakeman|on|the|train|run|between|salem|and|elmer|sub
sequent|he|was|baggagemast|between|salem|and|camden|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six
was|promot|as|conductor|run|between|ocean|citi|and|sea|isl
junction|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|he|was|transfer|to|his|present|posit
and|has|sinc|been|a|conductor|on|the|line|between|holli|beach|and|cape
may|court|hous|he|is|veri|popular|with|the|patron|of|the|road|his
cheer|render|assist|and|uniform|courtesi|win|him|high
regard
on|the|19th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|mr|johnson|was|unit|in|marriag
to|miss|sarah|flannigan|a|daughter|of|jame|flannigan|of|salem|counti
and|they|have|five|children|charl|herbert|a|druggist|now|eighteen|year
of|age|howard|who|die|at|the|age|of|six|year|florenc|and|julius
who|are|also|deceas|and|henri|who|die|in|infanc|mr|and|air
johnson|resid|in|a|beauti|and|tast|furnish|resid|in|wild
wood|and|are|number|among|the|oldest|resid|of|the|place|so|that
they|have|a|wide|acquaint|there|mr|johnson|belong|to|the|cape
isl|lodg|no|thirty|f|a|al|and|the|richmond|chapter|no|twenty-two
r|a|m|of|millvill|he|is|also|a|member|of|the|american|order|of
unit|workmen|and|of|the|baptist|church|of|which|he|has|seiw|as
clerk|and|deacon|his|life|has|been|an|upright|and|honor|one|char
five hundred and seventy|biograph|histori|of|the|first
acter|by|fidel|to|everi|duti|and|by|devot|to|all|measur|which|he
believ|are|calcul|to|prove|a|public|benefit
franci|r|fithian
one|of|the|well|known|financi|of|southern|new|jersey|is|franci
r|fithian|and|to|his|own|abil|energi|and|care|manag|he
owe|the|proud|posit|which|he|now|occupi|in|financi|circl|he
was|born|in|bridgeton|cumberland|counti|may|twenty-three|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|a|son|of|charl
s|and|harriet|reev|fithian|both|of|whom|were|repres|of
old|and|promin|famili|of|cumberland|counti|a|member|of|the
fithian|famili|was|dr|enoch|fithian|a|well|known|historian|and|physi
cian|of|greenwich|who|live|to|be|one|hundr|and|one|year|old|an
other|of|the|name|who|won|distinct|was|reuben|fithian|state|sena
tor|among|the|matern|relat|were|rev|dr|henri|reev|an
emin|clergyman|of|new|jersey|and|franci|b|reev|the|presid
of|the|girard|nation|bank|of|philadelphia|all|these|mention|were
uncl|or|greatuncl|of|our|subject|the|fithian|famili|is|of|english
lineag|and|was|found|by|a|follow|of|cromwel|in|connecticut|at
about|the|time|of|cromwel|s|death|about|two|hundr|year|ago|rep
resent|of|the|name|settl|in|cumberland|counti|new|jersey|one
of|the|earli|member|of|the|famili|was|rev|dr|phillip|vicer|fithian
who|led|the|revolutionari|american|citizen|that|burn|the|british|tea
at|greenwich|at|about|the|same|time|that|the|boston|tea|parti|occur
his|compani|dress|as|indian|and|the|aftair|was|hard|less|import
than|the|event|which|occur|at|boston|charl|s|fithian|the|father
of|our|subject|is|still|live|and|is|a|well|known|financi|of|southern|new
jersey|he|is|the|treasur|of|the|cumberland|mutual|fire|insur
compan|with|which|he|has|been|connect|for|over|a|quarter|of|a|centu
ry|and|is|a|director|of|the|cumberland|nation|bank|of|bridgeton|new
jersey|half|a|centuri|ago|he|establish|the|first|build|associ
form|in|south|jers|and|has|been|interest|in|build|associ
sinc|that|time|he|is|regard|as|one|of|the|lead|men|of|southern
new|jersey|and|his|influenc|in|busi|affair|in|this|part|of|the|state
has|been|veri|pronounc
franci|r|fithian|whose|name|introduc|this|record|is|a|graduat
of|the|west|jersey|academi|at|bridgeton|after|complet|his|school
cours|he|was|for|sever|year|editor|and|proprietor|of|the|bridgeton
chronicl|and|other|period|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|his|father|s|real|estat|inter
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventy-one
est|demand|so|much|of|his|time|that|he|sold|his|pubhcat|in|order|to
give|his|entir|attent|to|the|develop|of|lake|view|a|suburb|of
bridgeton|and|through|his|effort|that|section|of|the|citi|was|great
improv|and|beautifi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|in|connect|with|twenti|of|the|prom
inent|men|of|the|state|he|organ|the|state|mutual|build|loan
associ|of|new|jersey|with|offic|at|camden|this|associ
is|now|not|onli|the|largest|in|the|state|but|one|of|the|six|largest|in|the
unit|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|air|fithian|visit|london|in|order|to|studi
the|method|of|the|extens|build|associ|in|england|and|gain
there|sever|valuabl|idea|which|have|been|success|incorpor|into
the|state|mutual|associ|this|busi|enterpris|the|state|mutual
associ|is|a|larg|save|bank|for|the|peopl|of|new|jersey|and
has|asset|amount|to|two|million|dollar|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|sever|build
and|loan|offici|of|the|state|organ|the|build|loan|mutual|life
insur|compani|with|a|paidup|capit|of|twentyf|thousand|dol
lar|and|elect|mr|fithian|it|presid|he|is|the|presid|of|the
secur|trust|compani|of|camden|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|on|it|organ
was|elect|the|presid|of|the|real|estat|loan|trust|compani|of
camden|he|has|been|one|of|the|activ|member|of|the|bridgeton|board
of|trade|and|has|been|connect|with|various|financi|enterpris|which
have|not|onli|contribut|to|his|individu|prosper|but|have|also|proven
of|great|benefit|to|this|portion|of|the|commonwealth|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|he|was
appoint|by|the|governor|of|new|jersey|to|repres|the|state|in|the
world|s|real|estat|congress|held|in|chicago|accessori|to|the|orld|s
columbian|exposit|a|fact|which|indic|his|stand|as|a|represen
tativ|of|the|busi|interest|of|new|jersey
mr|fithian|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|mari|e|d|hill|a|daugh
ter|of|rev|dr|charl|e|hill|a|well|known|clergyman|of|the|new|jer
sey|methodist|episcop|confer|they|now|have|an|interest|fam
ili|of|four|children|esther|hill|charl|seeley|mari|hill|and|harriet
reev|mr|and|mrs|fithian|hold|membership|in|the|presbyterian|church
in|polit|he|is|a|republican|has|serv|in|the|citi|board|of|educ|in
bridgeton|and|is|now|one|of|the|truste|of|the|west|jersey|academi
he|has|alway|been|promin|in|public|affair|and|no|one|has|been|more
activ|or|commend|interest|in|the|welfar|and|develop|of
this|section|of|the|state|he|is|a|man|of|enterpris|veri|posit|char
acter|indomit|energi|strict|integr|and|liber|view|and|has|been
fulli|identifi|with|the|growth|and|prosper|of|new|jersey|through|the
year|of|his|manhood|in|busi|he|has|persev|in|the|pursuit|of|a
persist|purpos|and|has|gain|a|satisfactori|reward
five hundred and seventy-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
w|j|adamson
v|j|adamson|who|is|engag|in|the|realest|and|insur|busi
in|paulsboro|was|born|in|the|town|which|is|still|his|home|decemb|thirty-one
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|his|father|oram|adamson|was|a|nativ|of|scotland|and|came|to|the
unit|state|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|hope|to|better|his|financi|condit|in|the|new
world|the|ancestri|of|the|famili|can|be|trace|back|to|the|sixth|centuri
and|through|mani|generat|the|adamson|have|been|owner|and|opera
tor|of|woolen|mill|engag|in|the|manufactur|of|paisley|shawl
on|cross|the|atlant|the|father|went|to|chicago|illinoi|which|was
then|a|small|town|but|in|one hundred and eighty-five|one|came|to|paulsboro|new|jersey|where|he
follow|his|trade|of|carpetweav|he|was|at|one|time|a|soldier|in|the
english|armi|and|dure|his|life|he|travel|extens|both|in|europ|and
in|america|he|wed|mari|price|a|daughter|of|jame|price|of|ireland
and|they|becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|as|follow|mari|the|wife
of|w|h|flower|of|billingsport|new|jersey|w|j|of|this|sketch|henri
who|is|live|in|paulsboro|oram|of|denver|colorado|isabella|at|home
jemima|the|wife|of|charl|henri|of|paulsboro|and|georg|a|resid
of|colorado|the|father|of|these|children|held|membership|in|the|episco
palian|church|and|for|a|number|of|year|serv|as|a|warden|he|was|a|veri
genial|gentleman|well|like|by|all|who|knew|him|and|his|death|which
occur|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six|was|mourn|by|mani|friend|throughout|the|communiti
he|and|his|son|w|j|were|one|day|out|fish|when|the|boat|capsiz|and
they|were|thrown|into|the|river|they|manag|to|get|on|the|boat|which
was|then|drift|bottom|side|up|and|remain|there|all|night|the|son|hold
ing|the|father|on|most|of|the|time|at|length|howev|the|elder|man
slip|again|into|the|water|and|was|drown|his|widow|is|still|live
and|has|reach|the|age|of|seventyfour|year
in|his|earli|life|w|j|adamson|work|upon|a|farm|by|the|day|but
determin|to|abandon|agricultur|pursuit|he|began|do|carpent
work|although|he|had|no|previous|knowledg|of|the|trade|soon|howev
he|adapt|himself|to|the|new|labor|and|at|length|becam|an|expert|work
man|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|began|build|resid|upon|a|new|addit|which
had|been|made|to|paulsboro|and|sinc|that|time|he|has|erect|one|hun
dred|and|thirtyf|hous|of|which|he|has|sold|all|but|thirti|this|is|one
of|the|attract|addit|to|the|town|and|stand|as|a|monument|to|the
skill|and|enterpris|of|mr|adamson|he|aid|in|organ|the|bill
port|paulsboro|improv|compani|was|made|it|secretari|and|still
hold|that|posit|he|is|now|success|engag|in|the|realest|and
insur|busi|receiv|a|liber|patronag|in|both|line|he|has|been
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventy-three
the|secretari|of|the|paulsboro|build|loan|associ|and|has|long
been|an|import|factor|in|the|upbuild|and|improv|of|the|town
mrs|adamson|was|in|her|maidenhood|miss|mari|clement|a|daughter
of|william|clement|and|was|of|english|descent|unto|our|subject|and|his
wife|have|been|born|two|children|alic|and|austin|social|mr|adam
son|is|an|odd|fellow|and|has|attain|the|thirtysecond|degre|in|the
scottishrit|branch|of|masonri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was|elect|the|counti|trea
urer|of|gloucest|counti|for|a|term|of|two|year|he|take|an|activ|and
zealous|interest|in|polit|and|his|labor|have|result|in|advanc|the
interest|of|the|republican|parti|whose|principl|he|stanch|support
for|twenti|year|he|has|been|in|poor|health|have|never|enjoy|perfect
health|sinc|the|night|when|he|and|his|father|were|capsiz|in|the|river
work|thus|under|disadvantag|he|has|nevertheless|steadili|advanc
to|success|and|has|won|a|place|among|the|lead|repres|of|com
mercial|interest|in|paulsboro|at|the|same|time|gain|a|comfort
compet|by|mean|of|his|energi|sound|judgment|and|laudabl|ambit
frank|e|smith
no|name|is|more|insepar|interwoven|with|the|develop|progress
and|upbuild|of|holli|beach|than|that|of|frank|edward|smith|who|is
now|serv|as|the|mayor|and|who|is|connect|with|some|of|the|lead
busi|interest|of|the|place|prosper|is|due|to|commerci|activ
and|the|man|who|inaugur|and|conduct|success|busi|enterpris
is|therefor|one|of|the|benefactor|of|the|town|and|well|deserv|mention
among|the|repres|citizen|such|a|man|is|mr|smith|and|both
wide|and|favor|known|throughout|the|communiti|he|well|deserv
mention|in|this|volum
a|nativ|of|pennsylvania|he|was|born|in|meadvill|crawford|counti
that|state|august|twenty-five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|his|parent|be|oscar|b|and|marietta|kil
mer|smith|the|famili|remov|from|lowel|massachusett|to|the|key
stone|state|nelson|smith|the|grandfath|was|born|in|lowel|and|went
to|meadvill|pennsylvania|where|he|engag|in|farm|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one
at|the|advanc|age|of|eightyf|year|and|his|wife|pass|away|when
eightythre|year|of|age|they|were|the|parent|of|four|children|leonard
who|spent|some|time|in|southern|california|but|is|now|a|cattlerais|of
walla|walla|washington|marion|who|enter|the|union|armi|dure|the
civil|war|and|die|in|libbi|prison|cortez|a|farmer|resid|in|meadvill
pennsylvania|and|delett|who|marri|jeflerson|line
five hundred and seventy-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
oscar|b|smith|was|born|in|massachusett|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six|and|dure|his|boy
hood|accompani|his|parent|to|pennsylvania|where|he|later|engag|in
farm|and|merchandis|he|now|make|his|home|at|h0ii3|beach
where|he|has|resid|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|at|present|he|is|engag|in|the|dairi|busi
ness|in|polit|he|is|a|stalwart|republican|and|has|serv|as|a|member|of
the|citi|council|of|holli|beach|for|three|month|he|was|in|the|civil|war
but|befor|be|order|to|the|front|hostil|ceas|he|marri|miss
kilmer|and|to|them|have|been|born|seven|children|general|who|die|at
the|age|of|eighteen|month|frank|eugen|who|die|at|the|age|of|nineteen
year|sarah|may|the|wife|of|addison|rose|smith|former|a|grocer|of
meadvill|pennsyhania|but|now|live|near|buffalo|georg|nelson|who
marri|blanch|lewi|of|chicago|and|is|engag|in|the|nurseri|busi
in|rochest|new|york|export|his|nurseri|good|to|south|america
leavitt|sherburn|who|is|engag|in|the|dairi|busi|oscar|who|is
engag|in|bookkeep|for|his|brother|frank|e|and|lester|now|sixteen
year|of|age|at|home|with|his|parent
between|the|age|of|six|and|fourteen|year|frank|edward|smith|pur
su|his|educ|in|the|public|school|and|then|began|to|learn|the|black
smith|s|trade|which|he|follow|for|eight|year|he|then|engag|in|the
butcher|busi|four|year|sinc|which|time|he|has|been|engag|in
build|sea|wall|he|came|to|holli|beach|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and|dure|the|year
which|have|sinc|pass|has|taken|mani|contract|for|that|import|work
he|is|particular|skill|in|this|depart|of|labor|and|his|work|have
withstood|the|forc|of|wind|and|wave|in|a|manner|that|has|gain|him|high
commend
his|effort|howev|have|not|been|confin|alon|to|this|line|of|in
dustri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|he|built|an|ice|plant|of|ten|ton|capac|for|the|manufac
ture|of|artifici|ice|and|now|has|two|wagon|in|use|in|deliv|this|cool
product|to|his|mani|patron|at|holli|beach|the|plant|was|erect|at|a
cost|of|thirti|thousand|dollar|and|in|connect|with|it|oper|he
freez|fish|for|the|winter|and|lenten|season|in|philadelphia|he|has|the
onli|refriger|of|the|kind|found|east|of|buffalo|new|york|and|his|pat
ronag|in|this|branch|of|his|busi|is|larg|and|constant|increas|he
is|also|engag|in|contract|and|build|and|has|erect|the|dayton
hotel|at|wildwood|in|addit|to|mani|of|the|beauti|cottag|at|that
place|and|in|holli|beach
almost|from|it|incept|mr|smith|has|been|activ|identifi|with|the
growth|and|develop|of|the|latter|place|the|first|hous|built|here|was
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|the|properti|of|joseph|taylor|an|offic|in|the|holli|beach
improv|compani|among|the|pioneer|of|the|town|were|lattim
two|c|j|you|ic|ff|satcm|y
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventy-five
baker|joseph|taylor|dr|aaron|c|anderson|jame|bremmen|harri
bremmen|and|c|a|norton|the|perman|popul|of|the|town|is
four|hundr|but|in|summer|there|is|a|popul|of|six|thousand|and|all
of|the|hotel|are|fill|show|this|to|be|one|of|the|most|popular|resort
along|the|jersey|coast
mr|smith|has|been|an|activ|factor|in|the|conduct|of|the|govern
of|holli|beach|was|assessor|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|the|year|of|the|incorpor|of|the
town|and|again|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|and|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|he|was|a|member|of|the
citi|council|and|in|i8qi|was|chosen|by|the|council|to|the|posit|of|mayor
and|elect|to|that|offic|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|again|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|and|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six|he|was|elect
to|that|offic|and|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|was|elect|for|a|twoyear|term|so|that|he|is
the|present|incumb|he|doe|all|in|his|power|to|promot|the|growth
and|advanc|the|welfar|of|holli|beach|and|his|administr|has|been
progress|and|benefici|he|vote|with|the|democraci|and|keep|well
inform|on|the|issu|of|the|day|he|was|also|at|one|time|activ|inter
est|in|the|militari|affair|of|the|state|and|for|five|year|from|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|until
one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|was|a|member|of|compani|k|sixth|regiment|of|new|jersey|nation
guard
on|the|i6th|of|jrne|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-one|mr|smith|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss
matilda|miller|a|daughter|of|robert|miller|a|farmer|of|vineland|new
jersey|they|have|a|daughter|franc|matilda|and|in|holli|beach|they
are|wide|and|favor|known|mr|smith|is|recogn|as|one|pi|the
most|abl|busi|men|of|the|town|his|dilig|indomit|energi|and
undaunt|persever|win|him|prosper|that|number|him|among
the|substanti|citizen|he|has|done|much|toward|promot|the|general
welfar|by|promot|trade|and|commerc|and|by|the|wise|judgment|which
he|has|display|in|tlie|discharg|of|his|offici|duti|his|career|both
public|and|privat|has|been|mark|by|the|strictest|integr|and|faith
ness|to|everi|trust|repos|in|him
the|young|men|s|christian|associ
in|the|moral|develop|and|welfar|of|salem|there|has|been|no|more
import|factor|than|the|young|men|s|christian|associ|which|sinc
it|organ|has|exert|a|wide|influenc|for|good|it|effect|is|immea
urabl|be|like|the|echo|which|roll|from|soul|to|soul|and|live|forev
and|forev|for|a|number|of|year|the|associ|occupi|rent|room
on|east|broadway|and|the|director|secur|william|w|barker|to|act|as
the|general|secretari|he|held|the|posit|for|over|four|year|and|on|the
fifty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
expir|of|that|period|resign|to|becom|the|pastor|of|a|baptist|church
at|phillipsburg|new|jersey|he|was|succeed|by|harrj|dare|who|after
about|two|year|seric|also|resign|and|becam|the|pastor|of|a|baptist
church|at|junction|xew|jersey|by|this|time|the|associ|spirit|had
spread|to|such|an|extent|and|the|membership|had|grown|to|such|proport
that|it|was|necessari|to|have|a|home|of|it|own|and|step|were|taken|toward
the|erect|of|a|build|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|a|deposit|of|iifteen|thousand|dollar|was
made|and|the|build|was|erect|g|tyler|gave|five|thousand|dollar
to|the|btiild|and|the|citizen|of|salem|rais|the|remaind
john|a|warner|becam|the|first|secretari|in|the|new|build|and|re
main|in|that|posit|until|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|succeed|by|w|g
cartlich|who|howev|serv|for|onli|eight|month|the|present|secretara
william|h|pullencam|to|the|associ|on|the|ist|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|and
has|sinc|remain|in|charg|the|present|membership|is|one|hundr|and
fifti|in|the|senior|depart|and|fiitj|in|the|junior|depart|religi
servic|bibl|and|educ|class|and|entertain|are|held|regular
and|thus|the|work|is|carri|forward|a|place|be|provid|for|young|men
where|they|may|have|health|and|help|entertain|that|will|be|a|ben
efit|to|their|physic|and|moral|natur|the|associ|was|never|so|pros
perous|as|at|the|present|time|and|salem|may|well|be|proud|of|the|work
that|is|be|done|therebi
henri|t|west
henri|j|avest|one|of|the|most|high|esteem|citizen|of|gloucest
citi|camden|counti|xe|jersey|now|sennng|as|a|member|of|the|state
board|of|taxat|was|bom|april|i|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|in|allendal|rhode|island|he
come|of|distinguish|xew|england|stock|among|the|descend|of|his
patern|ancestor|be|lieuten|governor|west|of|that|state|mr
west|s|grandfath|job|r|west|was|a|lifelong|resid|of|rhode|island
where|he|was|engag|as|a|millwright|dure|his|year|of|actiait
henn|f|west|the|father|of|henn|j|was|a|nativ|of|rhode|island
be|one|of|the|two|children|bom|to|his|parent|he|work|in|the|mill
in|that|state|until|after|his|marriag|becom|familiar|with|the|detail
in|each|depart|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|he|came|to|gloucest|citi|accept|the
posit|of|manag|of|the|washington|mill|the|largest|mill|of|this|local
it|which|then|employ|some|six|hundr|hand|the|forc|in|cours|of
time|increas|to|twelv|hundr|hand|at|the|end|of|thirti
five|year|of|seric|in|this|respons|posit|he|resign|thenceforward
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventy-seven
live|in|retir|until|his|death|at|the|age|of|sixtythre|year|henri
f|west|was|a|man|of|great|intelhg|and|influenc|everywher|respect
for|his|strict|integr|he|serv|as|a|meml|er|of|the|citi|council|be
it|presid|for|mani|year|and|was|also|the|presid|of|the|board|of
educ|a|number|of|term|in|polit|he|was|a|sound|republican|and
in|religion|was|a|valu|member|of|the|presbyterian|church|and|took|an|ac
tive|interest|in|the|denomin|work|his|wife|former|zeviah|walker
was|born|in|scituat|rhode|island|a|daughter|of|georg|g|and|sarah
mathewson|walker|she|now|make|her|home|with|her|son|henri|j
west|who|is|one|of|three|children|the|other|be|charl|f|and|lizzi
s|the|wife|of|harri|reev
henri|j|west|was|educ|in|the|public|school|of|gloucest|citi
and|the|classic|and|english|school|of|professor|gregori|in|philadelphia
subsequ|take|a|cours|in|civil|engin|at|the|philadelphia|poli
technic|colleg|on|leav|that|institut|he|enter|the|washingtoi
mill|becom|an|apprentic|in|the|machin|shop|and|afterward|be
employ|in|the|other|depart|until|convers|with|the|work|of|each
when|he|was|appoint|assist|to|his|father|in|the|manag|of|the
mill|retir|from|this|posit|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|he|was|appoint|undersheriff
by|sheriff|baird|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-seven|and|remain|in|this|offic|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|when|he
was|elect|the|sheriff|of|camden|counti|by|the|largest|major|ever|re
ceiv|by|a|counti|offic|up|to|that|date|he|serv|as|sheriff|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three
a|period|cover|the|maximum|number|of|year|in|one|term|of|that|offic
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|mr|west|was|nomin|by|governor|avert|of|new|jersey|as|a
member|of|the|state|board|of|taxat|for|a|temi|of|five|year|and|his|nomi
nation|was|unanim|confirm|by|the|senat|in|may|of|that|year|in
august|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|was|unanim|elect|to|the|presid|of|the|board
succeed|albert|h|slate|the|late|presid|of|the|state|board|of|tax
ation|at|the|legisl|session|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|he|was|appoint|by|governor
vocrhe|and|unanim|confirm|by|the|senat|for|a|second|term|of
five|year|pe|is|a|stockhold|in|the|camden|gloucest|oodburi
trolley|railwav|compani|and|one|of|the|director|and|is|also|interest
in|a|number|of|busi|enterpris|in|the|counti|where|he|resid
mr|west|is|a|promin|and|activ|member|of|the|mason|order|be
long|to|cloud|lodg|no|loi|of|gloucest|citi|of|which|he|is|a|past
master|siloam|chapter|royal|arch|mason|cyren|commanderi
knight|templar|of|camden|and|mecca|templ|of|the|mystic|shrine
of|new|york|he|likewis|belong|to|the|improv|order|of|red|men
of|gloucest|citi|and|lodg|no|two hundred and ninety-three|b|p|o|e|he|attend|the|pres
bvterian|church|and|is|now|the|first|truste|of|the|board|of|truste|of
five hundred and seventy-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
which|he|has|long|heen|a|meinber|he|has|a|beauti|resid|and|his
home|is|made|attract|to|his|mani|friend|by|the|presenc|of|his|motner
a|woman|of|intellig|and|activ|who|presid|over|the|household|wit
a|gracious|and|generous|hospit
richard|t|miller
richard|thompson|miller|circuitcourt|judg|of|new|jersey|is|one|of
those|who|by|reason|of|their|knowledg|of|the|law|and|their|manner|of|ad
minist|it|have|place|the|judiciari|of|new|jersey|on|that|high|plane
which|it|so|just|occupi
judg|miller|s|patern|grandfath|jona|miller|the|onli|child|of
abram|miller|and|his|wife|susanna|nee|stanburi|was|born|in|essex
counti|new|jerse_|in|one thousand, seven hundred and eighty-six|and|earli|in|life|remov|to|bass|river|in
atlant|counti|where|he|success|engag|in|the|busi|of|ship
build|and|chandleri|some|year|later|he|purchas|congress|hall
and|it|plantat|at|cape|lsland|now|cape|may|citi|and|resid|there
dure|the|remaind|of|his|day|he|marri|mari|mathi|and|by|this
union|had|six|children|one|of|whom|water|burrough|miller|the|father
of|the|present|judg|was|for|year|the|proprietor|of|congress|hall|his
rare|judgment|sturdi|honesti|and|quick|appreci|of|the|affair|and
need|of|his|fellow|citizen|endear|him|alik|to|all|parti|and|he|was
chosen|to|fdl|mani|offic|of|trust|and|respons|he|repres|his
counti|in|the|hous|of|assembl|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three|and|in|the|state|senat|for|two
term|from|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|at|the|age|of|sixtyeight
year
judg|miller|s|matern|greatgreatgrandfath|william|william|of
loudoun|counti|virginia|a|colonel|in|the|third|regiment|of|pennsylvania
volunt|was|marri|on|the|24th|of|juli|one thousand, seven hundred and seventy-nine|at|christ|church|in|the
citi|of|philadelphia|to|abigail|a|daughter|of|richard|and|esther|zane
collin|of|gloucest|counti|now|camden|counti|new|jersey|their
onli|child|hetti|w|marri|captain|humphrey|hugh|who|dure
the|war|of|eighteen|twelve|sail|imder|letter|of|marqu|issu|by|the|french|gov
ernment|and|gain|consider|fame|for|his|attempt|to|rescu|bonapart
from|his|imprison|at|st|helena|an|attempt|which|but|for|the|pre
matur|discharg|of|a|weapon|caus|by|the|fall|of|a|sailor|would|undoubt
ed|have|been|success|one|of|the|children|of|captain|hugh|was
louisa|w|the|wife|of|enoch|edmund|of|cape|may|counti|who|becam
the|sheriff|of|his|counti|and|repres|it|in|the|state|senat|of|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-three
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and seventy-nine
louisa|h|edmund|the|daughter|of|senat|edmund|marri|water
b|miller|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|she|die|at|the|earli|age|of|thirtythre|year
leav|four|children|among|whom|was|richard|t|miller|who|was|born
in|cape|may|counti|on|the|i6th|of|decemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-five|at|the|age|of|eight
he|was|sent|to|meig|academi|at|pottstown|pennsylvania|where|he|re
main|but|a|veri|short|time|be|place|the|next|year|in|the|congr
gation|school|at|easton|connecticut|where|he|continu|his|studi
for|two|year|after|that|he|attend|the|west|jersey|academi|at|bridg
ton|new|jers|until|the|death|of|it|princip|professor|thompson|in
i860|he|then|began|to|prepar|for|yale|colleg|under|the|instruct|ot
a|privat|tutor|but|be|compel|by|reason|of|i|will|health|to|abandon|his
purpos|of|enter|colleg|he|join|the|engin|corp|then|at|work
en|the|new|railroad|between|millvill|and|cape|may|of|which|his|father
senat|miller|was|one|of|the|foremost|promot|upon|the|complet
of|his|labor|as|a|surveyor|he|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|regist|as|a|student
at|law|under|the|tutorship|of|the|hon|thoma|p|carpent|late|justic|of
the|new|jersey|suprem|court|then|practic|in|camden|he|was|ad
mit|to|the|bar|as|an|attorney|at|the|novemb|term|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|and|at|onc
open|an|offic|at|cape|may|citi|whenc|about|a|year|later|he|return
to|camden|where|he|has|ever|sinc|resid|he|was|made|a|counselor
at|law|at|the|novemb|term|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|and|citi|solicitor|of|cape|may|citi|hi
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|was|the|judg|of|the|district|court|of|the|citi|of|camden|from|march
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-seven|to|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight|and|prosecutor|of|the|plea|for|cape|may|counti
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|for|a|term|of|five|year|the|last|name|offic|he|resign|on
march|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-two|to|accept|the|commonplea|judgeship|of|camden|on
march|eleven|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|to|accept|the|circuitcourt|judgeship|for|the|state|begin
ning|at|onc|the|duti|of|an|offici|term|end|in|march|one thousand, nine hundred|on|the
one|2th|of|the|latter|month|he|retir|from|that|offic|after|serv|seven
year|and|april|twenty-eight|follow|by|governor|voorhe|he|was|appoint|a
member|of|the|board|of|fishground|commission
judg|miller|marri|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-four|miss|merced|ysabel|azcar|a|nativ
of|cuba|with|whom|he|becam|acquaint|while|she|in|compani|with|her
parent|summer|at|cape|may|the|ceremoni|took|place|at|christ
church|philadelphia|befor|the|veri|same|altar|where|just|ninetyf
year|previous|his|greatgreatgrandfath|colonel|william|wed
the|quaker|maiden|abigail|collin
judg|miller|s|abil|natur|and|acquir|is|peculiar|suit|to|his
chosen|profess|as|is|shown|by|the|emin|that|he|has|achiev|in|it
each|of|the|posit|for|which|he|has|been|select|he|has|fill|with|credit
to|himself|and|to|those|respons|for|his|appoint|and|his|elev
five hundred and eighty|biograph|histori|of|the|first
to|the|bench|is|a|fit|cuhiiin|give|full|play|to|his|best|faculti
his|imparti|judgment|have|commend|him|most|favor|to|that|larg
part|of|the|communiti|whose|busi|has|brought|them|in|close|contact
with|him|the|judg|is|thorough|domest|in|his|habit|is|easi|in|man
ner|and|has|alway|so|will|aid|the|younger|member|of|the|bar|that
with|them|he|is|a|univers|favorit|while|his|charact|and|attain
have|equal|commend|him|to|his|contemporari
bloomfield|h|minch
hon|bloomfield|h|iiinch|of|bridgeton|exmemb|of|the|assembl
for|cumberland|counti|was|born|on|a|farm|in|hopewel|township|this
counti|octob|ten|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-four|he|is|a|son|of|franci|b|and|elizabeth|h
tice|minch|and|belong|to|one|of|the|oldest|and|best|famili|in|the
union|nativ|in|southern|new|jersey|for|mani|generat|his|great
grandfath|was|benjamin|minch|and|his|grandfath|was|archibald
minch|a|wealthi|farmer|of|hopewel|his|nativ|town|who|was|veri|promi
nent|in|the|communiti|and|activ|in|public|affair|he|was|the|last|origin
stockhold|of|the|cumberland|nation|bank|which|was|found|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twelve
a|strong|old|whig|he|was|the|first|man|in|the|town|to|declar|allegi
to|the|republican|parti|of|his|children|onli|franci|b|surviv|him
franci|b|minch|was|born|on|the|homestead|in|hopewel|august|fourteen
one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|and|live|there|fifti|year|he|person|superintend|his|farm
which|was|an|extens|one|until|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|when|he|came|to|bridgeton|he
vfas|one|of|the|incorpor|of|the|bridgeton|nation|bank|of|which|he
has|been|a|director|for|mani|year|and|he|is|the|presid|of|the|north
bridgeton|land|compani|which|was|organ|for|the|purpos|of|de
velop|north|bridgeton|while|in|hopewel|he|was|a|member|of|the
board|of|freehold|of|the|township|after|move|to|the|citi|he|was
elect|a|member|of|the|eiti|council|from|the|third|ward|mr|minch|is|a
promin|mason|belong|to|brear|lodg|no|two|and|brear|chap
ter|no|six|his|wife|who|is|a|nativ|of|pittsgrov|salem|counti|has
born|him|three|children|name|robert|f|who|die|at|the|age|of
twentythre|bloomfield|h|the|subject|of|this|sketch|and|mari|the|wife
of|e|freeman|crowel|of|lansdown|pa|both|parent|are|member|of
the|first|presbyterian|church
the|hon|bloomfield|h|minch|attend|the|common|school|of|hope
viell|graduat|at|the|south|jersey|listitut|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|and
finish|a|cours|of|studv|at|bryant|stratton|s|busi|colleg|phila
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eighty-one
delphia|in|may|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|in|novemb|of|that|year|he|form|with|wilham
o|garrison|a|partnership|which|still|continu|the|hous|of|garrison
minch|soon|came|to|be|look|upon|as|one|of|the|most|prosper|and|re
liabl|in|the|citi|of|bridgeton|they|deal|in|all|kind|of|farm|implement
and|agricultur|produc|and|are|extens|engag|in|the|manufactur
of|fertil|they|have|the|most|extens|busi|of|the|kind|in|south
jersey|and|give|employ|to|from|fifti|to|one|hundr|person|mr
minch|is|a|thorough|busi|man|he|was|one|of|the|incorpor
and|is|now|the|treasur|of|the|cumberland|construct|compani|of
which|mr|garrison|is|the|presid|the|corpor|which|make|a
specialti|of|bridg|and|wharf|build|has|satisfactorili|execut|mani
heavi|contract|mr|minch|was|also|one|of|the|organ|and|incorpora
tor|of|the|cumberland|trust|compani|of|bridgeton|also|one|of|the|incor
porat|and|a|director|of|the|state|mutual|life|insur|compani|of
camden|and|also|of|the|real|estat|loan|trust|compani|of|camden
on|decemb|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|he|was|marri|to|miss|mari|e|rebeau|of
camden|two|children|have|bless|the|union|robert|f|and|aleta|e
mrs|minch|die|januari|two|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-six
in|polit|mr|minch|has|been|promin|as|a|republican|for|some
time|and|has|been|elect|sever|time|as|a|deleg|to|state|convent
in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-four|he|was|elect|to|the|legislatur|by|a|larg|major|and|serv|on
the|committe|on|bank|and|insur|and|stationeri|and|the|joint|com
mitte|on|feder|relat|in|the|fall|of|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-five|was|reelect|for|the
term|of|eighteen thousand, nine hundred and sixty-seven|he|is|a|past|master|of|brear|lodg|no|two|a|f|a
m|past|high|priest|of|brear|chapter|no|six|a|member|of|olivet|com
manderi|no|ten|and|he|has|been|three|time|a|repres|of|the|grand
lodg|of|the|state|he|also|belong|to|cohansey|lodg|no|one hundred and three|ind
pendent|order|of|odd|fellow|and|to|the|junior|order|of|american|me
chanic|both|he|and|mrs|minch|are|member|of|the|first|presbyterian
church|they|have|a|beauti|home|on|est|commerci|street|which
mr|minc|has|built|sinc|his|marriag
the|casper|famili
one|of|the|old|and|distinguish|famili|of|new|jersey|is|the|casper
famili|that|for|sever|generat|has|been|connect|with|salem|counti
lawrenc|casper|the|first|of|the|name|in|america|was|a|nativ|of|baden
baden|germanv|and|leav|the|fatherland|he|came|to|the|new|world
with|the|wistar|the|imott|the|oak|hitchner|fries|and|other|by
five hundred and eighty-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
trade|he|was|a|hatter|and|follow|that|pursuit|in|cohansey|where|he|made
his|home|for|mani|year|he|was|a|member|of|the|lutheran|church|he
had|two|children|lawrenc|and|john|the|latter|the|grandfath|of
our|subject|also|learn|the|hatter|s|trade|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|he|remov|to|sharp
town|new|jersey|where|he|follow|his|chosen|occup|and|also|carri
on|agricultur|pursuit|through|mani|long|year|he|serv|as|con
stabl|and|prove|a|most|effici|and|faith|offic|his|polit|sup
port|was|given|first|to|the|whig|parti|and|afterward|to|the|democraci
he|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|at|the|age|of|seventysix|year|and|the|communiti|lost
therebi|one|of|it|valu|citizen|he|was|twice|marri|his|first|union
be|with|hannah|wentzel|and|sarah|bilderback|becam|his|second|wife
thoma|jefiferson|casper|the|father|of|our|subject|was|a|child|of|the
first|marriag|and|was|born|in|sharptown|in|one thousand, eight hundred and two|he|spent|his|minor
there|and|after|attain|to|man|s|estat|he|was|marri|and|remov|to
mannington|township|salem|counti|where|he|carri|on|farm|until
his|death|he|took|an|activ|part|in|public|affair|and|like|his|father
serv|throughout|a|long|period|as|constabl|he|also|held|the|offic|of
sheriff|and|was|almost|continu|in|some|posit|of|public|trust|and
respons|his|polit|support|was|given|the|democraci|and|he
was|recogn|as|a|leader|in|the|local|rank|of|the|parti|he|wed
mari|ann|anderson|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|ten|children|name
william|a|john|joseph|charl|thoma|j|hannah|w|the|wife|of
jame|lindsey|samuel|c|mari|anna|and|ephraim|davi|the|father
die|in|trenton|new|jersey|at|the|age|of|sixtysix|year|and|the|mother
pass|away|when|eightytwo|year|of|age
william|a|casper|who|is|now|promin|connect|with|the|busmess
and|public|interest|of|salem|counti|was|born|on|the|old|homestead|in
mannington|township|septemb|thirty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-eight|and|obtain|his|educ|in
the|district|school|of|the|neighborhood|he|earli|becam|familiar|with
all|the|duti|and|labor|that|fall|to|the|lot|of|the|agriculturist|and|after
attain|his|major|follow|farm|on|his|own|account|until|i860
when|he|began|deal|in|grain|and|hay|in|salem|he|follow|that
busi|for|some|time|and|then|turn|his|attent|to|auction
which|he|has|sinc|follow|with|excel|success|his|abil|to|manag
a|sale|has|made|him|veri|popular|in|his|line|and|his|servic|are|in|demand
over|a|wide|area|he|is|also|the|owner|of|two|valuabl|farm|one|locat
in|quinton|township|the|other|in|lower|penn|s|neck|township|and|these
add|materi|to|his|incom
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|was|celebr|the|marriag|of|mr|casper|and|miss
elizabeth|stretch|a|daughter|of|mark|stretch|and|to|them|were|born
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eighty-three
eiht|children|hildreth|who|has|been|twice|marri|wiluam|j|anna
eriza1|eth|s|john|mari|anna|and|one|who|die|in|infanc|the|mother
was|call|to|her|etern|home|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|age|of|sixtyeight|year
like|other|of|his|famili|mr|casper|has|been|offici|connect|with
the|keep|of|the|public|peac|have|serv|as|sheriff|of|salein|counti
from|t86o|until|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|he|has|also|held|a|number|of|township|offic|he
is|independ|in|polit|support|those|whom|he|think|best|qualifi
for|offic|regardless|of|parti|affili|energi|and|enterpris|are|num
bere|among|his|chief|characterist|and|have|been|the|most|import
factor|in|his|success|in|manner|he|is|social|and|genial|and|he|has|a|host
of|warm|friend|he|is|a|worthi|repres|of|a|famili|that|sinc
coloni|day|has|been|connect|with|the|counti|and|that|has|alway|been
loyal|and|faith|to|it|best|interest
david|wiley|m|d
one|of|the|lead|phvsician|and|extens|landown|of|salem|is
dr|wilev|whose|mark|execut|abil|keen|discernmentandunflagguig
enterpri|have|gain|him|prestig|in|both|profession|and|commercia
circl|he|is|one|of|salem|counti|s|nath|son|his|birth|have|occur
in|upper|penn|s|neck|mav|eight|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-eight|and|his|parent|be|joseph|b|and
mari|amanda|morri|wiley|his|grandfath|david|wiley|was|a|sou
of|john|wiley|and|the|famili|name|is|of|swedish|origin|it|representa
tive|were|earlv|member|of|the|swedenborgian|church|but|afterward|be
came|identifi|with|the|protest|episcop|church|david|wiley|the
grandfath|was|a|nativ|of|upper|penn|s|neck|made|farm|his|life
work|and|die|in|penn|s|grove|he|was|also|a|director|m|the|salem
nation|bank|and|was|honor|by|his|fellow|townsmen|with|an|elect
to|the|state|legislatur|his|religi|view|were|in|harmoni|with|the
doctrin|of|the|episcopalian|church|of|which|he|was|accord|a|mem
ber|he|marri|lydia|borden|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|john
rebecca|harriet|georg|uriah|jane|joseph|b|and|elijah|and|one|who
die|in|infanc|the|grandfath|of|the|doctor|die|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|at
the|age|of|sixtvseven|vear
joseph|b|wilev|the|doctor|s|father|was|born|in|upper|penn|s|neck
township|salem|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|and|when|he|had|attain|to
man|s|estat|began|farm|there|he|was|the|owner|of|one|hun
dred|and|seventv|acr|of|rich|land|which|he|place|under|a|high|state
of|cultiv|the|well|till|field|yield|to|him|a|golden|tribut|m|re
five hundred and eighty-four|biograph|histori|of|the|first
turn|for|lii|care|and|labor|he|marri|mari|amanda|morri|and|thev
becam|the|parent|of|four|children|david|william|who|was|born|in
april|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|and|die|at|the|age|of|nine|year|elizabeth|who|was|born|in
one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|and|die|at|the|age|of|twentyon|year|and|joseph|a|resid|of
salem|who|was|born|in|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|and|marri|emma|t|dalla|the
father|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-five|at|the|earli|age|of|thirtythre|year|and|the|mother
long|surviv|him|pass|away|in|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|at|the|age|of|sixtynin|year
in|his|youth|dr|wiley|attend|the|public|school|of|woodston|later
was|a|student|in|pennington|seminari|and|the|michigan|state|univ
siti|and|was|graduat|at|the|univers|of|pennsylvania|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-nine|with
the|degre|of|m|d|he|had|determin|to|make|the|practic|of|medicin
his|hfe|work|and|after|care|and|thorough|prepar|for|his|chosen
profess|he|locat|in|salem|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy|and|open|an|offic|he|is|a
repres|of|regular|medicin|and|in|his|practic|he|has|met|with
excel|success|and|won|distinct|as|a|lead|physician|of|the|com
muniti
he|is|also|a|man|of|excel|busi|and|execut|abil|and|splendid
power|of|manag|and|is|therebi|enabl|success|to|control|ex
tensiv|land|interest|his|properti|hold|are|veri|valuabl|he|and
his|brother|joseph|b|own|a|farm|in|gloucest|counti|of|one|hundr
acr|and|he|has|one|hundr|acr|in|olden|township|salem|counti|one
hundr|and|fifti|acr|in|upper|penn|s|neck|township|a|second|one|in
that|township|of|three|hundr|and|fifteen|acr|two|hundr|and|twenti
five|acr|in|mannington|township|two|farm|in|elsinboro|township|com
prise|four|hundr|acr|and|one|in|cumberland|counti|of|one|hundr
and|twenti|acr|in|addit|to|this|he|has|charg|of|the|estat|of|john
h|and|josiah|morri|the|former|compris|two|farm|in|mannington
township|one|of|two|hundr|and|twentyf|acr|the|other|of|one|hun
dred|and|thirti|acr|one|in|gloucest|counti|and|one|in|west|virginia
of|two|hundr|and|sixtyf|acr|besid|busi|properti|hous|and
money|the|estat|of|joseph|morri|repres|two|farm|besid|mon
eye|interest|although|his|busi|care|in|the|manag|of|these
properti|are|extens|his|effort|are|not|confin|to|them|alon|for|he|is
connect|with|bank|enterpris|and|is|a|member|of|the|build|loan
associ
in|his|polit|afffliat|the|doctor|is|a|republican|and|keep|well
inform|on|the|issu|of|the|day|but|has|never|sought|polit|prefer
have|never|serv|in|public|offic|save|as|a|member|of|the|board|of
health|he|hold|membership|in|the|methodist|episcop|church|and|at
one|time|was|a|member|of|it|board|of|truste|his|life|has|been|well
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eighty-five
spent|and|his|fidel|to|duti|has|ever|been|most|mark|the|salient
point|in|his|career|are|unfalt|persever|and|unflag|enterpris
in|busi|loyalti|in|social|life|and|reliabl|in|public|trust|qualiti
which|have|gain|to|him|the|high|regard|of|mani|friend
georg|w|reed
one|of|the|foremost|men|in|railroad|circl|in|woodburi|is|georg|w
reed|whose|long|experi|and|effici|servic|render|him|an|author
in|his|line|his|parent|came|of|two|of|the|oldest|and|most|high|respect
famili|of|gloucest|counti|and|his|relat|are|number|among|the
repres|citizen|of|this|section|of|the|state
the|reed|or|read|as|the|name|was|spell|origin|are|of|english
extract|esquir|joseph|reed|the|grandfath|of|our|subject|was|born
and|spent|the|major|portion|of|his|life|in|gloucest|counti|new|jersey|he
was|a|wellknown|and|respect|citizen|a|magistr|and|a|local|preacher
in|the|methodist|episcop|church|he|die|about|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-six|and|of|his|entir
famili|onli|one|member|jame|surviv|as|the|wife|and|mother|alari
reed|and|three|of|their|son|thoma|b|william|b|and|joseph|l
are|deceas
william|b|the|father|of|g|w|reed|was|born|in|this|counti|februari
twenty|one thousand, eight hundred and twenty-two|and|spent|his|earli|year|upon|a|farm|he|acquir|a|fair|educa
tion|and|for|sever|year|was|a|success|teacher|in|the|school|of|his
nativ|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-seven|he|remov|to|philadelphia|where|he|die|febru
an|nine|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-nine|then|in|his|prime|his|wife|eliza|thompson|reed|live
mani|year|longer|be|summon|to|the|silent|land|at|paulsboro|xew
jersey|in|septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|of|their|children|sarah|t|and|wilmer|are
deceas|and|john|c|is|a|resid|of|woodstown|new|jersey|air
reed|was|a|granddaught|of|isaac|thompson|a|soldier|of|the|revolut
dure|which|war|his|home|was|at|thompson|s|point|a|place|name|in|his
honor|his|son|nathan|the|father|of|mrs|reed|was|born|and|pass|his
entir|life|in|this|counti|pie|die|about|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|love|and|mourn|by|a
larg|circl|of|lifelong|friend|he|maiti|sarah|russel|and|had|ten
children|jame|r|samuel|richard|uriah|georg|ann|rebecca|eliza
and|two|who|die|when|young
georg|w|reed|was|born|near|bridgeport|logan|township|glouc
ter|counti|april|eighteen|1s46|and|receiv|his|primari|educ|in|the|school
taught|by|his|father|later|he|pursu|his|studi|in|privat|school|and|in
the|hancock|grammar|school|in|philadelphia|have|a|desir|to|equip
five hundred and eighty-six|biograph|histori|of|the|first
himself|for|the|battl|of|life|in|some|special|manner|he|next|learn|tel
egraphi|in|the|quaker|busi|colleg|in|philadelphia|dure|the|civil
war|he|was|in|the|employ|of|the|govern|for|two|year|as|a|fireman|on
train|of|the|west|jersey|railroad|which|transport|soldier|and|suppli
to|the|union|armi|in|the|south|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-six|mr|reed|took|a|posit|as|tele
graph|oper|for|the|road|just|mention|and|at|the|end|of|three|year
was|appoint|station|agent|at|swedesboro|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-five|he|was
transfer|to|a|similar|posit|at|millvill|new|jersey|remain|there
until|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-eight|when|he|resign|in|order|to|accept|a|better|place|in
the|servic|of|lippincott|son|compani|wholesal|auction|of|phila
delphia|after|four|year|with|that|firm|he|becam|the|auditor|and|general
passeng|agent|of|the|delawar|river|railroad|enter|upon|his|re
sponsibl|duti|on|the|ist|of|octob|tssi|eighteen|year|have|roll
away|and|he|still|continu|in|this|posit|have|thorough|prove|his
valu|to|the|compani|he|take|a|live|interest|in|the|affair|of|the|com
muniti|in|which|he|dwell|and|play|the|part|of|a|true|patriot|he|serv
his|friend|and|neighbor|as|assessor|of|greenwich|township|one|year|and
was|clerk|of|the|board|of|freehold|of|woodburi|three|year|in|his
polit|view|he|is|a|democrat
the|famili|relat|of|mr|reed|have|alway|been|verv|happi|he
was|unit|in|marriag|with|miss|susan|adam|daughter|of|john|b|and
susan|adam|of|philadelphia|in|june|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|their|union|was|bless
with|four|children|two|of|whom|have|been|summon|to|the|better|land
wilber|the|eldest|marri|haddi|colin|of|pleasantvill|new|jersey
clifton|the|second|son|who|had|wed|emma|b|walker|of|clarksboro
new|jersey|die|in|januari|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-nine|at|the|age|of|twentyeight|year|how
ard|h|marri|anni|hammil|of|marlton|new|jersey|charl|a|the
youngest|die|when|but|twelv|year|of|age
alexand|r|fithian
the|name|of|fithian|has|been|so|long|promin|and|honor|con
nect|with|the|histori|of|southern|new|jersey|that|alexand|robeson
fithian|need|no|special|introduct|to|the|reader|of|this|volum|he
has|himself|been|for|a|number|of|year|recogn|as|a|veri|import
factor|in|social|and|polit|circl|his|parent|are|charl|s|and|harrier
reev|fithian|he|was|born|in|bridgeton|new|jersey|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-three|and
has|two|brother|william|s|a|merchant|of|bridgeton|and|franci|r
who|is|promin|connect|with|build|and|loan|associ|of|this
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eighty-seven
state|he|attend|the|west|jersey|academi|and|the|south|jersey|insti
tute|be|a|graduat|of|the|latter|institut|determin|to|make|the
practic|of|law|his|life|work|he|then|enter|the|columbia|colleg|of|new
york|and|is|a|graduat|of|that|institut|he|has|becom|a|wellknown
republican|leader|in|south|jersey|yet|has|never|been|a|politician|in|the
sens|of|an|officeseek|have|never|except|on|one|occas|held|public
ofific|his|influenc|and|effort|howev|have|proven|a|strong|factor|in
elect|mani|state|counti|and|citi|offici|he|was|appoint|by|presi
dent|harrison|to|the|offic|of|collector|of|custom|but|on|no|other|occa
sion|has|he|accept|offici|reward|for|his|polit|servic|his|fit|for
leadership|in|polit|life|is|wide|recogn|becaus|of|his|comprehen
sive|and|accur|knowledg|of|the|polit|situat|of|the|countri|the
need|of|the|peopl|of|public|opinion|and|his|mark|abil|to|guid|and
direct|public|thought|and|action|in|literari|circl|he|is|not|less|promi
nent|he|has|one|of|the|most|valuabl|librari|in|bridgeton|and|is|an
acknowledg|author|on|most|literari|question|in|connect|with
his|brother|franci|r|fithian|he|is|extens|interest|in|financi|and
realest|matter|includ|nation|park|a|pleasur|resort|in|town
situat|on|the|east|bank|of|the|delawar|a|few|mile|below|camden|it
is|there|that|the|monument|which|mark|the|battleground|of|red|bank
is|to|be|seen|as|well|as|the|trench|which|were|use|by|the|soldier|in
the|revolutionari|war|mr|fithian|is|a|director|in|sever|financi|in
suranc|and|other|institut|of|south|jersey|and|is|a|member|of|the|bar
associ|of|both|cumberland|and|camden|counti|the|bridgeton
hospit|was|made|possibl|by|his|exert|about|two|year|ago|and
under|his|direct|as|it|presid|is|becom|a|necessari|part|of|cum
berland|counti|s|advanc
edgar|f|dell
in|the|busi|affair|of|life|and|now|in|public|offic|edgar|f|dell|has
manifest|mark|execut|abil|and|keen|discrimin|for|a|num
ber|of|year|he|was|connect|with|the|commerci|interest|of|philadel
phia|and|of|baltimor|and|at|the|present|write|he|is|capabl|discharg
the|duti|of|postmast|of|woodburi|where|his|courtesi|to|the|patron
of|the|offic|and|his|prompt|and|fidel|in|administ|it|aftair|have
won|him|the|regard|and|commend|of|the|public
mr|dell|is|a|nativ|of|philadelphia|his|birth|have|occur|in|that
five hundred and eighty-eight|biograph|histori|of|the|first
citi|on|the|8th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty-two|back|to|merri|england|the|ancestri|of
the|famili|is|trace|tlie|grandfath|richard|dell|and|the|father|of|our
subject|joseph|f|dell|were|both|nativ|of|belvider|warren|counti
new|jersey|the|latter|enter|upon|his|busi|career|as|a|clerk|in
his|nativ|town|and|later|secur|a|cleric|posit|in|a|cloth|store|in
philadelphia|subsequ|he|began|busi|on|his|own|account|as|a
member|of|the|firm|of|becker|dell|which|was|one|of|the|oldest|cloth
firm|in|that|citi|the|hous|sustain|a|veri|enviabl|reput|and|in
consequ|enjoy|a|liber|patronag|in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-one|he|remov|to|wood
buri|where|he|made|his|home|although|he|conduct|his|busi|in
terest|in|philadelphia|he|was|a|great|lover|of|hors|and|usual|own
some|fine|specimen|of|the|nobl|steed|he|marri|miss|kate|clute|and
they|becam|the|parent|of|seven|children|name|edgar|f|walter|who
is|live|in|the|west|frank|a|resid|of|philadelphia|josephin|the
wife|of|william|gristearn|who|make|his|home|abroad|richard|also|of
philadelphia|anni|the|wife|of|west|jessup|of|woodburi|and|jean
nett|the|wife|of|arthur|star|the|father|of|these|children|die|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five
but|the|mother|is|still|live|at|the|age|of|sixtyfour|year
edgar|f|dell|spent|his|boyhood|day|in|his|nativ|citi|and|is|indebtea
to|it|publicschool|system|for|the|educ|privileg|which|he|receiv
on|put|asid|his|textbook|he|enter|his|father|s|cloth|store|and
thorough|master|the|busi|remain|with|the|firm|of|becker
dell|until|his|father|s|retir|from|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|he|then|becam|a
travel|salesman|for|a|baltimor|hous|which|he|repres|upon|the
road|for|twelv|year|with|his|father|s|famili|he|had|taken|up|his|abod
in|woodburi|and|dure|presid|cleveland|s|first|administr|he|was
appoint|postmast|which|posit|he|fill|until|retir|dure|presid
harrison|s|term|of|offic|when|grover|cleveland|was|again|elect|he
was|onc|more|appoint|to|the|posit|and|most|capabl|and|effici
administ|the|affair|of|the|offic|he|has|alway|been|a|stalwart|dem
ocrat|in|his|polit|affili|and|has|given|an|earnest|and|loyal|support
to|the|parti
in|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-two|iir|dell|was|unit|in|marriag|to|miss|sarah|daughter|of
judg|william|d|scott|of|woodburi|their|union|has|been|bless|with
six|children|name|edgar|alic|s|clarenc|marion|joseph|s|and
frank|p|the|famili|is|one|of|promin|in|the|communiti|hold|a
posit|of|relat|distinct|in|social|circl|air|dell|still|retain|an
interest|in|a|wholesal|cloth|hous|in|but|maintain|his
resid|in|woodburi|where|he|has|a|wide|acquaint|his|reliabl
in|busi|affair|his|fidel|to|duti|in|public|offic|his|genial|manner|and
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and eighty-nine
uniform|courtesi|in|social|circl|all|gain|for|him|the|regard|and|confid
of|those|with|whom|he|come|in|contact
georg|rumsey
the|true|measur|of|individu|success|is|determin|by|what|one|has
accomplish|and|when|we|know|that|richard|rumsey|has|work|his
way|upward|from|a|humbl|posit|to|a|place|among|the|most|substanti
citizen|of|salem|we|can|not|but|acknowledg|that|his|success|has|been
most|credit|and|enviabl|fate|doe|not|bestow|her|favor|promiscu
ousli|thev|must|be|earnest|sought|after|and|persever|and|energi
must|character|the|search|these|element|domin|the|businss|ca
reer|of|mr|rumsey|have|brought|him|prosper|and|now|enabl|him|to
lay|asid|the|more|activ|duti|of|life|and|live|practic|retir
a|son|of|charl|and|hannah|mulford|rumsey|he|was|born|in|salem
april|twenty-two|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-three|his|father|was|a|nativ|of|maryland|and|becam|a|mer
chant|and|silversmith|of|salem|he|was|a|member|of|the|methodist|church
and|his|life|was|an|honor|and|upright|one|but|his|career|was|brought
to|an|untim|termin|for|he|die|in|earli|manhood|on|the|14th|of
septemb|one thousand, eight hundred and forty-one|by|his|marriag|to|hannah|mulford|he|had|five|chil
dren|jacob|tiulford|who|follow|merchandis|first|at|salem|and|after
ward|in|portsmouth|ohio|marri|mar|stanger|and|had|two|children
edward|s|and|laura|charl|who|engag|in|merchandis|in|salem
and|in|philadelphia|wed|emma|micher|a|sister|of|john|micher|of
philadelphia|and|they|had|two|children|gertrud|and|anna|and|by|his
second|wife|whose|maiden|name|was|mari|sovereign|he|also|rear|a
number|of|children|jame|m|a|merchant|of|portsmouth|ohio|marri
miss|harriet|gosteit|and|their|children|are|john|c|charl|c|eliza|w
jame|m|william|t|blasphel|and|hatti|hannah|al|is|the|wife|of|s|l
j|miller|a|retir|farmer|and|has|one|child|wyatt|w|georg|is|the
youngest|of|the|famili|the|mother|die|novemb|two|one hundred and eighty-eight|one|at|the|ad
vanc|age|of|eightvseven|year
dure|the|greater|part|of|his|life|georg|rumsey|has|been|a|resid
of|salem|and|for|mani|year|was|a|most|activ|factor|in|it|busi|in
terest|have|arriv|at|year|of|matur|he|engag|in|merchandis
here|conduct|his|store|until|i860|when|he|resolv|to|tri|his|fortun|m
ohio|and|remov|to|portsmouth|that|state|where|he|open|a|whole
sale|dr|good|and|notion|hous|there|he|carri|on|oper|for|eight
year|build|up|a|good|trade|and|deriv|therefrom|an|excel|incom
from|time|to|time|he|made|judici|invest|in|real|estat|and|sinc
five hundred and ninety|biograph|histori|of|the|first
his|return|to|salem|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-eight|he|has|practic|live|retir|onli|devot
his|energi|to|the|manag|of|his|properti|in|this|place|and|elsewher
in|februari|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-two|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|rumsey|and|miss
cornelia|a|howard|and|to|them|have|been|born|the|follow|walter
a|who|graduat|in|pharmaci|and|is|now|engag|in|the|drug|busi
in|philadelphia|marri|a|ladi|of|philadelphia|charl|gifford|havord
born|in|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|die|in|1s69|eugen|a|graduat|of|cornel|univers|is
now|a|member|of|the|firm|of|the|rumsey|electr|manufactur|com
pani|consult|engin|and|manufactur|agent|in|philadelphia|ann
renbi|is|the|next|of|the|famili|georg|a|is|associ|with|his|brother
eugen|in|busi|and|carrol|livingston|who|was|graduat|in|june
one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-eight|at|the|troy|new|york|polytechn|institut|is|now|in|the|employ
of|the|shiffler|bridg|compani|as|ciil|engin|at|pittsburg|pennsyl
vania
a|prophet|is|never|without|honor|save|in|his|own|countri|and|even
there|a|veri|good|prophet|may|have|honor|in|view|of|this|there|is|par
ticular|interest|attach|to|the|career|of|the|subject|of|this|review|sinc
he|is|a|nativ|son|of|the|place|where|he|has|pass|his|entir|life|and|has
so|direct|his|abil|as|to|gain|recognit|as|one|of|the|repres
citizen|of|salem|the|salient|point|in|his|life|histori|are|sustain|indus
tri|invinc|spirit|sturdi|loyalti|and|unwav|honor|all|of|which
have|eventu|most|natur|in|secur|him|a|posit|in|the|respect
and|esteem|of|his|fellow|men
mauric|ayr
this|gentleman|who|is|the|presid|of|the|ayr|machin|compani
of|salem|new|jersey|was|born|in|greenwich|cumberland|counti|this
state|on|the|23d|of|april|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|the|ancestr|histori|of|the|famili|can
be|trace|back|to|jame|ayr|the|greatgrandfath|of|our|subject|rob
ert|ayr|the|grandfath|was|a|machinist|and|for|mani|year|carri|on
busi|in|greenwich|continu|oper|there|until|his|death|he
gave|his|polit|support|to|the|men|and|measur|of|the|republican|parti
and|in|his|religi|faith|he|was|a|baptist|he|was|twice|marri|he
wed|a|miss|wood|and|they|becam|the|parent|of|five|children|albert
jame|benjamin|elizabeth|and|emelin|for|his|second|wife|he|chose
miss|strather|and|they|had|four|children|frank|charl|walter|and
david|the|father|die|in|novemb|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|when|about|seventyf|year
of|age
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and ninety-one
the|parent|of|our|subject|were|jame|and|elizabeth|ayr|the|father
was|born|in|greenwich|cumberland|counti|in|one thousand, eight hundred and thirty-seven|acquir|his|educ
in|the|school|of|his|nativ|town|and|after|put|asid|his|textbook
learn|the|machinist|s|trade|which|he|follow|for|mani|year|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he
retir|from|that|line|of|busi|and|has|sinc|devot|his|energi|to|the
canning|busi
mauric|ayr|whose|name|introduc|this|sketch|attend|the|high
school|of|salem|and|was|graduat|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-one|he|then|learn|the
machinist|s|trade|with|his|father|thorough|master|the|busi|in
everi|detail|and|one|ecom|an|expert|workman|on|his|father|s|retir
from|that|busi|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|becam|his|successor|in|partnership|with
benjamin|f|tyler|under|the|firm|name|of|tyler|ayr|this|connec
tion|was|continu|for|two|year|when|he|bought|out|his|partner|and|con
tinu|the|busi|alon|until|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety-three|when|it|was|incorpor|under|the
firm|name|of|the|ayr|machin|compani|with|the|follow|offic
mauric|b|ayr|presid|and|charl|h|ayr|secretari|and|trea
urer|they|conduct|a|general|machinist|s|busi|and|do|general|repair
work|but|make|a|specialti|of|the|manufactur|of|machineri|for|canning
factori|employ|is|furnish|to|twenti|men|and|the|output|of|the
factori|is|extens|for|the|compani|enjoy|an|excel|reput|on|ac
count|of|the|superior|grade|of|their|work|and|also|for|reliabl|in|all|trade
transact|the|shop|is|one|hundr|and|fifteen|by|twentyeight|feet
and|is|equip|with|all|the|accessori|necessari|in|the|product|of|first
class|iron|work|the|busi|of|the|ayr|machin|compani|has|now
becom|one|of|the|lead|industri|of|salem|and|it|prosper|is|due|to
the|well|direct|effort|and|busi|abil|of|the|presid
on|the|27th|of|octob|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|mr|ayr|marri|miss|ella|d|finlow
and|they|now|have|one|child|william|f|their|pleasant|home|is|a|favorit
resort|with|their|mani|friend|and|they|occupi|an|eniabl|posit|in|the
social|world
dr|h|l|gilmour
one|of|the|success|practic|dentist|of|philadelphia|and|an|esteem
resid|of|wenonah|is|the|gentleman|whose|name|introduc|this|review
dentistri|may|be|said|to|be|almost|uniqu|among|other|occup|as|it|is
at|onc|a|profess|a|trade|and|a|busi|such|be|the|case|it|follow
that|in|order|to|attain|the|highest|success|in|it|one|must|be|thorough
convers|with|the|theori|of|the|art|must|be|expert|in|the|use|of|the|mani
tool|and|applianc|incident|to|the|practic|of|modern|dentistri|and
five hundred and ninety-two|biograph|histori|of|the|first
must|also|have|the|lousi|qualif|adequ|to|deal|with|the|finan
cial|side|of|the|profess|in|all|of|these|regard|dr|gilmour|is|well|fit
for|his|chosen|call|and|has|gain|a|posit|of|distinct|preced
among|the|repres|of|his|profess|in|philadelphia
a|nativ|of|new|jersey|he|was|born|in|cape|may|octob|five|one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-five|and
is|a|son|of|h|l|gilmour|whose|birth|occur|in|londonderri|ireland
and|who|came|to|the|unit|state|in|the|year|of|the|doctor|s|birth|the
matern|grandfath|of|our|subject|captain|howard|was|a|sea|captain
and|broke|the|chain|by|which|the|french|tri|to|blockad|the|port|of|lon
donderri|in|the|war|between|england|and|franc|in|one thousand, seven hundred and forty|the|patern
grandfath|also|particip|in|the|same|war|and|fire|the|first|gun|at|the
french|wherebi|hostil|were|inaugur
the|doctor|s|father|came|to|the|unit|state|with|captain|lake|with
no|intent|of|take|up|his|abod|here|but|began|work|at|the|printer|s
trade|and|locat|in|cape|may|where|he|carri|on|a|success|busi
for|some|time|dure|the|civil|war|he|join|the|first|new|jersey|cav
alri|and|was|in|the|servic|for|four|and|a|half|year|a|most|loyal|defend
of|his|adopt|countri|captur|by|the|enemi|he|was|incarcer|in
libbi|prison|for|three|month|after|which|he|was|exchang|and|serv
in|the|hospit|as|steward|subsequ|he|receiv|a|commiss|in|the
medic|corp|and|held|the|rank|of|major|at|the|time|of|the|surrend|of|the
confeder|armi|return|to|the|north|he|becam|a|student|in|the
philadelphia|dental|colleg|where|he|was|graduat|with|the|class|of
one thousand, eight hundred and sixty-seven|he|then|open|an|offic|in|philadelphia|and|also|one|in|cape|may
and|has|sinc|been|success|engag|in|practic|he|is|especi|in
terest|in|music|servic|in|campmeet|and|has|been|a|compos|of
much|sacr|music|he|hold|membership|in|the|methodist|episcop
church|and|take|an|activ|part|in|it|work|and|has|been|a|truste|and
steward|in|the|congreg|in|which|his|membership|is|place|he|has
also|serv|as|a|classlead|and|superintend|of|the|sundayschool|he
belong|to|the|mason|fratern|and|is|an|exemplari|repres|of
that|benevol|order
dr|gilmour|sr|was|unit|in|marriag|to|iiss|letitia|howard|and
their|union|has|been|blest|with|three|children|l|h|the|subject|of|this
review|l|d|h|a|resid|of|newark|new|jersey|and|mari|p
h|l|gilmour|jr|was|rear|under|the|patern|roof|and|suppl
ment|his|preliminari|educ|by|a|cours|in|the|south|jersey|institut
where|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-four|determin|to|devot|his|life|to|the
practic|of|dental|surgeri|he|matricul|in|the|philadelphia|dental|col
lege|and|after|complet|a|thorough|cours|he|was|graduat|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine
congression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and ninety-three
he|then|join|his|father|in|practic|and|they|have|a|most|pleasant|suit
of|room|at|no|one thousand, five hundred and twenty|chestnut|street|philadelphia|their|offic|is|most
thorough|equip|with|all|modern|applianc|and|the|effici|of|and
skill|of|both|the|senior|and|junior|dentist|has|secur|to|them|a|veri|liber
patronag
on|the|4th|of|june|one thousand, eight hundred and ninety|dr|h|l|gilmour|jr|was|marri|to|miss
lena|m|cunningham|a|daughter|of|thoma|cunningham|who|was|a|veri
promin|citizen|of|delawar|and|sene|as|a|member|of|the|state|legisla
ture|they|had|two|children|but|both|are|now|deceas|the|doctor
and|his|wife|share|the|hospit|of|the|best|home|of|wenonah|and|their
circl|of|friend|and|acquaint|is|veri|extens|in|his|profession
life|he|has|alreadi|gain|enviabl|distinct|and|the|futur|undoubt
hold|in|store|for|him|a|success|career
the|even|news|bridgeton|new|jersey
the|bridgeton|even|news|one|of|the|most|pronounc|journalist
success|of|the|state|with|the|largest|circul|of|ani|laili|or|week
paper|in|new|jersey|south|of|camden|has|an|interest|histori|it
first|number|was|februari|i|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-nine|with|omin|shake|of|head|and
discourag|word|shower|upon|it|venturesom|proprietor|j|ward
richardson|j|h|c|appleg|and|paul|j|davi|but|determin|a
clear|comprehens|of|the|rapid|progress|in|store|for|bridgeton|the|pa
tienc|and|knowledg|requisit|to|educ|the|popular|mind|to|an|apprecia
tion|of|a|live|local|daili|paper|and|fiftyon|dollar|in|cash|constitut|the
capit|the|origin|financ|of|the|enterpris|is|thus|amus|told|in
the|recent|souvenir|edit|of|the|paper
when|the|appoint|time|came|for|each|member|of|the|new|firm|to
hand|out|twenti|dollar|as|previous|agre|upon|one|of|the|trio|courtesi
compel|that|no|name|be|mention|here|was|in|dire|strait|despit|his
most|vigor|search|among|his|old|cloth|in|odd|corner|he|was
forc|to|declar|his|inabl|to|rais|more|than|seventeen|dollar|this
brought|a|chang|of|base|the|remain|two|each|hastili|grab|three
dollar|from|the|stupend|pile|in|front|of|them|and|the|three|hope
contribut|just|seventeen|dollar|each|as|their|magnific|capit|for
launch|the|sheet|upon|a|heartless|and|unfeel|world|one
the|initi|number|consist|of|a|five|column|folio|eighteen|and|one
half|by|twentyfour|inch|remot|prophet|of|it|subsequ|expan
sion|and|vet|ninetenth|of|it|advertis|space|for|the|year|ha|l|been
five hundred and ninety-four
biograph|histori|of|the|first
sold|a|iwocolumn|advertis|had|declin|to|put|room|for|read
space|one|advertis|had|been|request|to|reduc|his|card|and|the|ventur
had|five|hundr|pay|subscrib
at|the|outset|john|walker|a|negro|was|the|steam|power|a|suc
cess|manufactur|now|on|north|laurel|street|was|the|ofific|man|rich
ardson|manag|the|busi|end|appleg|hustl|for|the|news|and
davi|look|after|the|typeset|and|print|the|first|locat|was|on
east|commerc|street|where|the|law|offic|of|a|r|fithian|is|now|lo
cate|a|chang|was|subsequ|made|to|the|corner|of|commerc|and
cohansey|street|and|later|the|plant|was|remov|to|no|three|laurel|street
where|the|firm|now|begin|to|prosper|bought|the|properti|here|the
even|news|with|it|companion|paper|the|dollar|week|grew|and|pros
pere|and|play|no|unimport|part|in|make|the|histori|of|bridgeton
on|alarch|twenty-four|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-six|adjoin|properti|nos|seventy|seventy-two|and|seventy-four|east|com
merc|street|were|purchas|and|soon|afterward|the|busi|offic|was
remov|to|yz|commerc|street|a|few|month|later|the|firm|need
room|a|brief|addit|was|erect|in|the|rear|of|seventy-four|commerc|street|and
the|plant|remov|occupi|the|entir|properti|the|second|floor|of|no
seventy-two|has|recent|been|ad|and|is|use|as|a|jobprint|depart|and|a
doorway|cut|through|connect|with|the|main|offic|make|it|one|of
the|most|complet|and|best|equip|print|offic|in|the|state
among|the|first|advertis|of|the|paper|were|s|e|mcgear|brother
p|h|goldsmith|reev|fithian|w|robbin|john|mcpherson|georg
h|whippl|w|g|fisher|philadelphia|mrs|h|a|mead|n|elmer
brother|a|h|gregon|and|w|h|oodrufif|mani|of|whom|are|still|in
busi|in|bridgeton
mr|davi|have|earli|sold|out|his|interest|to|the|remain|partner
messr|appleg|richardson|continu|the|proprietor|until|januari
i|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-nine|when|david|c|appleg|succeed|his|father|as|a|member|of|the
firm|two|year|later|he|have|withdrawn|j|w|richardson|has|sinc
then|been|the|sole|proprietor|the|plant|and|paper|are|own|by|mr|rich
ardson|the|most|valuabl|newspap|properti|in|southern|new|jersey|and
it|locat|one|of|the|most|valuabl|in|the|citi
the|even|news|with|it|companion|public|the|dollar|week
though|start|practic|without|capit|paid|expens|from|the|start|the
lead|featur|have|been|a|circul|base|upon|live|local|citi|and|counti
news|glean|from|everi|possibl|quarter|and|print|even|to|the|exclus
of|advertis|matter|it|strict|attent|be|to|the|small|detail|of|home
life|this|latter|featur|gave|rise|to|the|person|depart|at|first|se
vere|criticis|but|now|univers|follow|by|all|lead|metropolitan
coxgression|district|of|new|jersey|five hundred and ninety-five
journal|the|even|news|is|care|edit|is|a|clean|sheet|with|bill
ingsgat|journal|unknown|to|it|column|which|stanch|republican
it|is|so|fair|to|all|parti|that|democrat|prohibitionist|and|populist|are
it|regular|reader|with|a|circul|rang|from|three thousand, six hundred|to|four thousand, eight hundred|at|high
water|mark|the|news|is|known|from|one|end|of|the|state|to|the|other|and|is
accord|by|the|american|newspap|directori|the|largest|circul
in|cumberland|counti
joseph|r|beckett
one|of|the|lead|farmer|of|eogan|township|gloucest|counti|is
joseph|richard|beckett|who|own|and|cultiv|about|eighti|acr|of|land
which|has|been|in|his|possess|sinc|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three|he|has|one|of|the|well|culti
ate|farm|of|the|local|on|which|are|found|all|the|improv|and
accessori|seen|on|the|properti|of|the|most|advanc|agriculturist|of|the
period|his|field|are|well|till|and|in|the|autumn|golden|harvest|reward|his
labor|the|build|are|commodi|and|substanti|and|everyth|about
the|place|indic|the|thrift|and|enterpris|of|the|owner
mr|beckett|is|a|nativ|of|bridgeport|new|jersey|his|birth|have|oc
cur|on|the|one|2th|of|march|one thousand, eight hundred and fifty|his|grandfath|william|beckett|mar
rie|a|miss|iszard|and|his|matern|grandfath|was|joseph|richard|whose
wife|was|miss|pederick|in|her|maidenhood|both|famili|were|of|english
lineag|josiah|b|beckett|the|father|of|our|subject|was|bom|near|barn
boro|new|jersey|and|after|arriv|at|the|year|of|matur|marri|miss
mari|richard|a|nativ|of|bridgeport|and|they|had|five|children|name
william|henri|who|die|at|the|age|of|fortyseven|year|sarah|ann|who
die|at|the|age|of|fourteen|year|mari|elizabeth|deceas|wife|of|william
j|peterson|of|penn|grove|joseph|r|and|frank|who|die|at|the|age|of
four|year|after|the|death|of|his|first|wife|the|father|of|these|children
marri|sybilla|daniel|horner|by|whom|he|had|eight|children|name
samuel|who|die|at|the|age|of|two|year|one|who|die|in|infanc|georg
who|has|been|an|employ|in|the|unit|state|pension|bureau|for|twelv
year|sarah|who|is|marri|and|resid|upon|a|farm|near|woodburi|new
jersey|isabella|who|die|at|the|age|of|ten|year|anni|l|a|resid|of
woodburi|josiah|b|and|charl|who|die|at|the|age|of|two|year
mr|beckett|whose|name|introduc|this|sketch|was|educ|in|the
public|school|of|logan|township|bridgeport|and|swedesboro|and|in|a|pri
vate|school|conduct|by|professor|russel|of|penn|grove|he|further|pre
pare|for|the|practic|duti|of|life|by|a|commerci|cours|in|eastman|s
busi|colleg|in|which|he|was|graduat|in|the|class|of|one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-three|he|then
a
five hundred and ninety-six
biograph|histori
engag|in|farm|which|has|sinc|engag|his|attent|togeth|with
market|and|a|commiss|busi|his|father|was|the|owner|of|one
hundr|and|sixtyf|acr|of|land|eightytwo|acr|of|which|was|pur
chase|by|wilham|henri|beckett|some|time|befor|the|father|s|death|and
the|remaind|of|the|properti|was|purchas|by|joseph|r|beckett|in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-three
a|year|after|his|father|s|death|sinc|that|time|he|has|carri|on|agricultur
pursuit|with|a|mark|degre|of|success
in|one thousand, eight hundred and eighty-five|occur|the|marriag|of|mr|beckett|and|miss|susannah|just
ice|a|daughter|of|william|p|justic|of|bridgeport|and|four|children|hae
been|born|to|them|william|justic|mari|richard|altha|elizabeth|and
emma|justic
mr|beckett|vote|with|the|democrat|parti|and|is|deepli|interest|in
everyth|tend|to|secur|it|success|he|was|for|three|year|a|member
of|the|township|committe|and|is|now|a|member|of|the|school|board|of
logan|township|in|which|capac|he|has|serv|for|sever|vear|sociallv
he|is|connect|with|swedesboro|grang|the|american|order|of|unit
workmen|of|bridgeport|and|is|a|past|grand|of|bridgeport|lodg|l|o|o
f|he|and|his|famili|hold|membership|in|the|center|squar|methodist
episcop|church|and|among|it|member|have|mani|friend|their|well
spent|live|indic|their|belief|and|they|are|regard|as|repres|citi
zen|of|the|communiti
i
usraiy|of|congress
iiiuitlliu
three|three hundred and forty-four|fifty-five|eight
zero
ir|mi
