librari
univers|of|california
riversid
ilftravp|of|in|siutijov
the|complet|work|of
michael|drayton
now|first|collect
with|introductioi|and|note|by
the|eev|eicha|hooper|ma
vicar|of|upton|and|aston|upthorp|berk
axd|editor|of|chapman|s|homer|sandi|poetic|work|etc
volum|iipolyolbiox
london
john|russel|smith
soho|squar
one thousand, eight hundred and seventy-six
al
polyolbion
the|ninth|song
the|argibi
the|muse|here|merioneth|vaunt
and|her|proud|mountain|hifjh|chaunt
the|mil|and|brook|to|braveri|bent
standor|preced|from|descent
the|river|for|them|shew|there
the|wonder|of|their|pimblemer
proud|snowdon|glorious|jiroce
with|cambria|s|nativ|princ|deed
the|muse|then|through|carnarvan|make
and|mon|now|anglesey|awak
to|tell|her|ancient|druid|guis
and|manner|of|their|sacrific
her|billet|she|togeth|call
thn|back|for|flint|and|denbigh|azf
lu
f|all|the|cambrian|shire|their|head|that|bear|so
high
and|farthst|survey|their|soil|with|an|ambiti|eye
mervinki|for|her|hill|as|for|their|matchless|crowd
the|nearest|that|are|said|to|kiss|the|wandr|cloud
especi|audienc|crave|offend|with|the|throng|j
that|she|of|all|the|rest|neglect|was|so|long
merionofhflih|e
vdl|ii
v
two|polyolbion
alleg|for|herself|when|through|the|saxon|pride
the|godlik|race|of|bmie|to|severn|s|set|side
were|cruelli|inforc|d|her|mountain|did|reliev
those|whom|devour|war|els|evrywher|did|griev|lo
and|when|all|jfale|besid|by|fortun|or|by|might
unto|her|ancient|foe|resign|d|her|ancient|right
a|constant|maiden|still|she|onli|did|remain
the|last|her|genuin|law|which|stout|did|retain
and|as|each|one|is|prai|d|for|her|peculiar|thing|is
so|onli|she|is|rich|in|mountain|mere|and|spring
and|hold|herself|as|great|in|her|superflu|wast
as|other|by|their|town|and|fruit|tillag|grac|d
and|therefor|to|recount|her|elver|from|their|lin
abridg|all|delay|mervinia|thus|begin|twenty
though|dovi|which|doth|far|her|neighbor|flood|sur
mount
whose|cours|for|her|alon|mmintgcmurii|doth|account
hath|angel|for|her|own|and|kerlog|she|doth|clear
with|tow|m|qwedal|then|and|jjida|all|as|dear
those|tributari|stream|she|is|maintain|d|withal|twenty-five
yet|bold|may|i|say|her|rise|and|her|fall
my|countri|calleth|her|with|mani|anoth|brook
that|with|their|crystal|eye|on|the|vcrgkian|look
to|dovji|next|of|which|desiinni|sea|ward|drive
lingwrlll|goe|alon|but|plenteous|avon|strive|thirty
the|first|to|be|at|sea|and|faster|her|to|hie
clear|kemlguin|come|in|with|ilergimi|byandbi
so|ikrnj|moollnj|draw|and|munuiji|calleth|cain
wliich|in|one|channel|meet|in|go|to|the|main
as|to|their|utmost|pow|r|to|lend|her|all|their|aid|thirty-five
so|atro|by|the|arm|limbed|kind|lead
mere|or|pool|from|whenc|rivera|a|rin
tlic|llivcr|as|in|order|they|fall|into|the|jrisli|sea
the|ninth|song|three
and|fehnrul|the|like|observ|th|other|s|law
call|cmndl|she|again|fair|dmrld|forth|doth|draw
that|from|their|mother|earth|the|rough|mervinia|pay
their|mix6d|plenteous|spring|unto|the|lesser|bay|4o
of|those|two|nobl|arm|into|the|land|that|bear|three
which|through|givinethla|be|so|famous|everywher
on|ray|carnarvan|side|by|natur|made|my|mound
as|doinj|doth|divid|the|cardiganian|ground
the|pear|comvay|s|head|as|that|of|holi|dee|forty-five
renown|river|both|their|rise|have|in|me
so|lavern|and|the|lue|themselv|that|headlong|throw
into|the|spacious|lake|where|dee|unmix|d|doth|flow
trnicerriii|take|his|stream|here|from|a|nativ|lin
which|out|of|plmblemer|when|dee|himself|doth|win|fifty
along|with|him|his|lord|full|courteous|doth|glide
so|eudock|riseth|here|and|cletor|that|do|guid
him|in|his|rug|path|and|make|his|great|way
their|dee|into|the|bound|of|denbigh|to|convey
the|lofti|hill|this|while|attent|that|stood|fifty-five
as|to|survey|the|cours|of|everi|sever|flood
sent|forth|such|echo|shout|which|everi|way|so|shrill
with|the|reverber|sound|the|spacious|air|did|fill
that|they|were|easli|heard|through|the|vergman|ivlain
to|neplanc|s|inward|court|and|beat|there|constrain|sixty
that|mighti|god|of|sea|t|awak|who|full|of|dread
thrice|threw|his|threefork|d|mace|about|his|grisli|head
and|thrice|abov|the|rock|his|forehead|rai|d|to|see
amongst|the|hightopp|d|hill|what|tumult|it|should|be
so|that|with|veri|sweat|cadoridrlc|did|drop|one|go
and|mighti|llaran|shook|his|proud|sky|kiss|top
amongst|the|furious|rout|avhom|mad|did|enrag
until|the|mountainnymph|the|tumult|to|assuag
one|north|if|a|e5
twelve
four|rolyolbion
upon|a|modest|sign|of|silenc|to|the|throng
consort|thus|in|prais|of|their|3ierviniu|song|seventy
thrice|famous|saxon|king|on|whom|time|neer|shall|prey
eihjar|who|compelldst|our|ludwal|henc|to|pay
three|hundr|avolv|a|year|for|tribut|unto|thee
and|for|that|tribut|paid|as|ftimous|mayst|thou|be
conquer|d|british|king|by|whom|was|first|destroy|d|seventy-five
the|multitud|of|wolv|that|long|this|land|annoy|d
eegardless|of|their|rape|that|now|our|harmless|flock
secur|here|may|sit|upon|the|age|rock
or|wandr|from|their|walk|and|straggl|here|and|there
amongst|the|scattr|cleev|the|lamb|need|never|fear|so
but|from|the|threatn|storm|to|save|itself|may|creep
into|that|darksom|cave|where|onc|his|foe|did|keep
that|now|the|clambr|goat|all|day|which|have|fed
and|climb|up|to|see|the|sun|go|down|to|bed
is|not|at|all|in|doubt|her|littl|kid|to|lose|eighty-five
which|graze|in|the|vale|secur|and|safe|she|know
where|from|these|lofti|hill|which|spacious|heaven|do
yet|of|as|equal|height|as|thick|by|natur|set|threat
we|talk|how|we|are|stor|d|or|what|we|great|need
or|how|our|flock|do|fare|and|how|our|herd|do|feed|ninety
when|els|the|hang|rock|and|valley|dark|and|deej
the|summer|s|longest|day|would|us|from|meet|keep
ye|cambrian|shepherd|then|avhom|these|our|mountain
and|ye|our|fellow|kymph|ye|light|oreadt|pleas
saint|ilekn|s|wondrous|way|and|herbert|s|let|us|go|ninety-five
and|our|divid|liock|with|admir|show
not|mean|there|to|end|but|speak|as|they|were
a|sudden|fear|nois|surpris|everi|ear
the|waternymph|not|far|liiitey|that|frequent
with|brow|besmear|d|with|ooz|their|lock|with|de|w|bes2|rent
the|wondrous|mountain|in|erionethshir
kymijlib|of|the|mountain
the|ninth|song|five
inhabit|the|lake|in|sedgi|bowr|belovr|i|am
their|inward|ground|grief|that|onli|sought|to|show
against|the|mountainkind|which|much|on|them|did|take
abov|their|watri|brood|thus|proud|them|bespak
tell|us|ye|haughti|hill|whi|vain|thus|you|threat|los
esteem|us|so|mean|compar|d|to|yoti|so|great
to|make|you|know|yourselv|you|tlii|must|understand
that|our|great|maker|laid|the|surfac|of|the|land
as|level|as|the|lake|until|the|general|flood
when|over|all|so|long|the|troubl|water|stood|no
which|hurri|with|the|blast|from|angri|heaven|that|blew
upon|huge|massi|heap|the|loosen|gravel|threw
from|henc|we|would|ye|know|your|first|begin|came
which|sinc|in|tract|of|time|yourselv|did|mountain|name
so|that|the|earth|by|you|to|check|her|mirth|cheer|one hundred and fifteen
may|alway|see|from|heaven|those|plagu|that|pour|d|were
upon|the|former|world|as|t|were|by|scar|to|show
that|still|she|must|remain|disfigur|d|with|the|blow
and|by|th|infecti|slime|that|doom|delug|left
natur|herself|hath|sinc|of|puriti|been|reft|one hundred and twenty
and|by|the|seed|corrupt|the|life|of|mortal|man
was|shortn|with|these|plagu|ye|mountain|first|began
but|ceas|you|to|shame|what|mountain|is|there|found
in|all|your|monstrous|kind|seek|ye|the|island|round
that|truli|of|himself|such|wonder|can|report|one hundred and twenty-five
as|can|this|spacious|lin|the|place|of|our|resort|one
that|when|dee|in|his|cours|fain|in|her|lap|would|lie
commixt|with|her|store|his|stream|she|doth|deni
by|his|complexion|prov|d|as|he|through|her|doth|glide
her|wealth|again|from|his|she|likewis|doth|divid|one hundred and thirty
those|whitefish|that|in|her|do|wondrous|abound
are|never|seen|in|him|nor|are|his|salmon|found
at|ani|time|in|her|but|as|she|him|disdain
the|wonder|of|lmtege|or|pembhmer
six|polvolbion
so|he|again|from|her|as|wil|abstain|that|fall
down|from|the|neighbour|hill|those|plenteous|spring
nor|landflood|after|rain|her|never|move|at|all|i36
and|as|in|summer|s|heat|so|alway|is|she|one
resembl|that|great|lake|which|seem|to|care|for|none
and|with|stern|jeolus|blast|like|theti|wax|rank
she|onli|overswel|the|surfac|of|her|bank|i40
but|whilst|the|nymph|report|these|wonder|of|their
lake
their|further|becaus|of|speech|the|mighti|snoicdon|brake
least|if|their|watri|kind|should|suffr|be|too|long
the|licenc|that|they|took|might|do|the|mountain|wrong
for|quick|he|had|found|that|straitn|point|of|land|one hundred and forty-five
lito|the|irish|sea|which|put|his|powr|hand
puff|d|with|their|watri|prais|grew|insol|proud
and|need|would|have|his|rill|for|river|be|allow|d
short|darent|nearst|unto|the|utmost|point|of|all
that|th|isl|of|gelin|greet|and|banlsey|in|her|fall|iso
and|next|to|her|the|saw|the|gir|the|er|the|may
must|river|be|at|least|should|all|the|world|gainsay
and|those|wherea|the|land|lie|eastward|ampli|wide
that|good|conway|grace|upon|the|other|side
born|near|upon|her|bank|each|from|her|proper|lin|one hundred and fifty-five
soon|from|their|mother|out|soon|with|their|mistress|in
as|ledder|her|alli|and|neighbour|lertci|then
goe|purloyd|castel|next|with|gijin|that|again
observ|fair|conway|s|cours|and|though|their|race|be|short
yet|they|their|sovereign|flood|inrich|with|their|resort|leo
and|siancdon|more|than|this|his|proper|mere|did|note
still|dcloslik|wherein|a|wandr|isl|doth|float
was|peremptori|grown|upon|his|higher|ground
that|pool|in|which|besid|the|oneey|fish|are|found
as|of|lier|wonder|proud|did|with|the|flood|partak|one hundred and five
the|most|famous|fountain|of|all|wale|in|camarvanmr
two|the|wonder|upou|the|snuwdoit
the|nixth|song|j
so|when|great|siiowdon|saw|a|faction|tliey|would|make
against|his|general|kind|both|parti|to|appeas
he|purposeth|to|sing|their|nativ|princ|prais
for|simwdomj|a|hill|imperi|in|his|seat
is|from|his|mighti|foot|unto|his|head|so|great|ito
that|were|his|ifak|distrest|or|of|his|help|had|need
he|all|her|flock|and|herd|for|mani|month|could|feed
therefor|to|do|some|thing|were|worthi|of|his|name
both|tend|to|his|strengt|and|to|the|britaii|fame
his|countri|to|content|a|signal|have|made|it5
by|this|orat|think|both|parti|to|persuad
whilst|here|this|general|isl|the|ancient|britan|ow|d
their|valiant|deed|befor|by|severn|have|been|show|d
but|sinc|our|furious|foe|these|powr|saxon|swarm
as|merciless|in|spoil|as|well|approv|d|in|arm|iso
here|call|to|our|aid|loegria|us|bereft
those|poor|and|scattr|few|of|bratt|high|linag|left
for|succour|hither|came|where|that|unmix|race
remain|unto|this|day|yet|owner|of|this|place
of|whom|no|flood|nor|hill|peculiar|hath|song|is5
these|then|shall|be|my|theme|lest|time|too|much|should
avrong
such|princ|as|were|our|sinc|sever|d|we|have|been
and|as|themselv|their|fame|be|limit|between
the|severm|and|our|sea|long|pent|within|this|place
till|with|the|term|of|jvehh|the|english|now|embas|one hundred and ninety
the|nobler|britan|name|that|wellnear|was|destroy|d
with|pestil|and|war|which|this|great|isl|annoy|d
cad|trail|ader|that|drave|to|the|armor|ic|shore
to|which|dread|conan|lord|of|denbigh|long|befor
his|countrymen|from|henc|auspici|convey|would|iti5
whose|nobl|feat|in|war|and|neverfail|aid
the|glori|of|snowdonhil
eight|polyolbion
got|maximus|at|length|the|victori|in|gaul
upon|the|roman|power|where|after|gratian|s|fall
armorica|to|them|the|valiant|victor|gave
where|conan|their|great|lord|as|full|of|courag|drave|two hundred
the|cell|out|of|their|seat|and|did|their|room|suppli
with|peopl|still|from|henc|which|of|our|coloni
was|littl|bnlain|call|d|where|that|distress|king
ciulwallad|himself|awhil|recomfort
with|hope|of|alan|s|aid|which|there|did|him|detain|two hundred and five
forewarn|was|in|dream|that|of|the|britan|reign
a|sempitern|end|the|angri|power|decre
a|reclus|life|in|home|injoin|him|to|lead
the|king|resign|all|his|son|young|edual|left
with|alan|who|much|griev|d|the|princ|should|be|bereft
of|britain|s|ancient|right|rigg|d|his|unconqu|d|fleet|two hundred and eleven
and|as|the|general|then|for|such|an|armi|meet
his|nephew|ivor|chose|and|hiner|for|his|pheer
two|most|undaunt|spirit|these|valiant|britan|were
the|first|who|jkestsci|won|but|by|the|lingr|war|two hundred and fifteen
when|they|those|samn|found|t|have|succour|still|from|l|tr
they|took|them|to|their|friend|on|severn|s|set|shore
where|find|edwal|dead|they|purpo|d|to|restor
his|son|young|bodorick|whom|the|saocou|power|pursu|d
but|he|who|at|his|home|here|scorn|d|to|be|subdu|d|two hundred and twenty
with|aldr|that|on|rrcs|his|strong|invas|brought
larlhmaluck|and|feucoyd|those|famous|battl|fought
that|noiih|and|sonijiiral|sing|on|the|westsexian|won
scarc|this|victori|task|his|bloodi|sword|had|done
but|at|mount|canw|met|the|mercian|and|with|wound|two hundred and twenty-five
made|ethdhuld|to|feel|his|trespass|on|our|bound
prevail|d|against|the|pid|befor|our|forc|that|flew
and|in|a|valiant|fight|their|king|dalargan|slew
the|wrtitsaxom|countri|comprehend|devomhir|somerset
wvtxlurc|and|their|adjac
a|hill|near|abcr|javcnuij|in|al|onmouth
the|ninth|song|nine
nor|conan|s|courag|less|nor|less|prevail|d|in|ought
renown|rodoricm|lieir|who|with|the|english|fought|two hundred and thirty
the|herefordlcm|field|as|ruthland|red|with|gore
who|to|transfer|the|war|from|this|his|nativ|shore
march|d|through|the|mercian|town|with|his|reveng
blade
and|on|the|english|there|such|mighti|havock|made
that|offa|when|he|saw|his|countri|go|to|wrack|two hundred and thirty-five
from|bickr|with|his|folk|to|keep|us|britan|back
cast|up|that|mighti|mound|of|eighti|mile|in|length
athwart|from|sea|to|sea|which|of|the|mercian|strength
a|wit|though|it|stand|and|offa|s|name|do|bear
our|courag|was|the|becaus|whi|first|he|cut|it|there|two hundred and forty
as|that|most|dread|day|at|gavelfard|can|tell
where|under|either|s|sword|so|mani|thousand|fell
with|intermix|d|blood|that|neither|knew|their|own
nor|which|went|victor|thenc|unto|this|day|is|known
nor|kettl|s|conflict|then|less|martial|courag|show|d|two hundred and forty-five
where|valiant|mervin|met|the|mercian|and|bestow|d
his|nobler|british|blood|on|burthr|s|recreant|flight
as|rodorick|his|great|son|his|father|follow|right
bare|not|the|saxon|scorn|his|britan|to|outbrav
at|gwijthen|but|again|to|burthr|battl|gave|two hundred and fifty
twice|drive|out|the|bane|when|he|invas|brought
whose|no|less|valiant|son|again|at|conway|fought
with|dam|and|mercian|mix|d|and|on|their|hate|head
downshow|r|d|their|dire|reveng|whom|they|had|murther|5d
and|were|t|not|that|of|us|the|english|would|report|two hundred and fifty-five
abus|of|our|tongu|in|most|malici|sort
as|oftentira|they|do|that|more|than|ani|we
the|welsh|as|they|us|term|love|glorifi|to|be
here|could|i|els|recount|the|slauglitr|saxon|gore
our|sword|at|crosford|spilt|on|sever|ne|s|wandr|shore|two hundred
one|ofa|s|ditch
ten|polyolbion
and|giiffifh|here|produc|lewelun|s|valiant|son
may|we|believ|our|bard|who|five|pitch|d|battl|won
and|to|reveng|the|wrong|the|envious|ewjllsh|wrought
his|welltrain|d|martial|troop|into|the|imarch|brought
as|far|as|fforstcr|wall|nor|thenc|did|he|retir|two hundred and sixty-five
till|poivs|lay|wellnear|spent|in|our|reveng|fire
as|hereford|laid|wast|and|from|their|plenteous|soil
brought|back|with|him|to|jfuh|s|his|prison|and|his|spoil
thus|as|we|valiant|were|avhen|valour|might|us|steed
with|those|so|much|that|dar|d|we|had|them|that|decre
for|what|mulmutian|law|or|martian|ever|were|an
inior|excel|than|those|which|our|good|hoicel|here
ordain|d|to|govern|jfale|which|still|with|us|remain
and|when|allpow|fate|had|brought|to|pass|again
that|as|the|sawn|erst|did|from|the|britan|win|two hundred and seventy-five
upon|them|so|at|last|the|nmman|come|in
took|from|those|tyrant|here|what|treachrous|they|got
to|the|perfidi|french|which|th|angri|heaven|allot
neer|could|that|conqueror|s|sword|which|rough|did|decid
his|right|in|eikjland|lier|and|prostrat|her|pride|2so
us|to|subject|stoop|or|make|us|brllan|bear
th|unwieldi|norman|yoke|nor|base|could|we|fear
his|conquest|entr|wale|but|with|stout|courag|our
defi|him|to|his|face|with|all|his|englhh|powr
and|when|in|his|reveng|proud|biifus|hither|came|two hundred and eighty-five
with|vow|us|to|sulivert|with|slaughter|and|with|shame
oer|severi|him|we|sent|to|gather|stronger|aid
so|hen|to|england|s|power|alhanht|her|had|laid
by|henri|beaudark|brought|for|all|his|devilish|wit
by|which|he|raught|the|avreath|he|not|prevail|d|a|whit|2no
and|through|our|rug|strait|when|he|so|rude|prest
had|not|his|prove|mail|sate|sure|to|his|breast
a|skil|british|hand|his|life|had|him|bereft
as|his|stern|brother|s|heart|by|tirril|s|hand|was|cleft
the|ninth|song|eleven
and|let|the|english|thus|which|vilifi|our|name|two hundred and ninety-five
if|it|their|great|pleas|report|unto|our|shame
the|foil|our|givyneth|gave|at|frmfs|so|dead|fight
to|maud|the|empress|son|that|there|he|put|to|flight
and|from|the|eiiijlish|pow|r|th|imperi|ensign|took
about|his|plume|head|which|valiant|oiveii|shook|soo
as|when|that|king|again|his|fortun|to|advanc
abov|his|former|foil|procur|d|fresh|power|from|franc
a|surelylevel|d|shaft|if|sentckar|had|not|seen
and|in|the|veri|loos|not|thrust|himself|between
his|sovereign|and|the|shaft|he|our|reveng|had|tri|three hundred and five
thus|to|preserv|the|king|the|nobl|subject|die
as|madock|his|brave|son|may|come|the|rest|among
who|like|the|godlik|race|from|which|his|grandsir
sprong
whilst|here|his|brother|tir|d|in|sad|domest|strife
on|their|unnatur|breast|bent|either|s|murther|knife
this|brave|adventur|youth|in|hot|pursuit|of|fame|three hundred and eleven
with|such|as|his|great|spirit|did|with|high|deed|inflam
put|forth|his|wellrigg|d|fleet|to|seek|him|foreign|ground|j
and|sail|west|so|long|until|that|world|he|found
to|christian|then|unknown|save|this|adventur|crew
long|ere|colujithn|liv|d|or|it|fesputius|knew|three hundred and sixteen
and|put|the|nownam|d|ipehh|on|india|s|parch|face
unto|the|endless|prais|of|brute|s|renown|race
ere|the|iberian|power|had|touch|d|her|longsought|bay
or|ani|ear|had|heard|the|sound|of|florida|three hundred and twenty
and|with|that|croggcus|name|let|th|english|us|disgrac
when|there|are|to|be|seen|yet|in|that|ancient|place
from|whenc|that|name|they|fetch|their|concjuer|d|grand
sire|grave
for|which|each|ignor|sot|unjust|us|deprav
and|when|that|tyrant|john|had|our|subvers|vow|d|three hundred and twenty-five
to|his|unbridl|will|our|neck|we|never|bow|d
twelve|polyolbion
nor|to|his|mighti|son|whose|host|we|did|inforc
his|succour|cut|off|to|eat|their|warlik|hors
until|allrul|heaven|would|have|us|to|resign
when|that|brave|princ|the|last|of|all|the|british|line|three hundred and thirty
lewellin|griffith|s|son|unluckili|was|slain
as|fate|had|spar|d|our|fall|till|edward|longshank|reign
yet|to|the|stock|of|brute|so|true|we|ever|were
we|would|permit|no|princ|unless|a|nativ|here
which|that|most|prudent|king|perceiv|wise|thought
to|satisfi|our|will|and|to|carnarvan|brought|aso
his|queen|be|great|with|child|ev|n|readi|down|to|lie
then|to|his|purpo|d|end|doth|all|his|power|appli
through|evri|part|of|jvale|he|to|the|nobl|sent
that|they|unto|his|court|sliould|come|incontin|three hundred and forty
of|thing|that|much|concern|d|the|countri|to|debat
but|now|behold|the|power|of|unavoid|fate
when|thus|unto|his|will|he|fit|tliem|had|won
at|her|expect|hour|the|queen|brought|forth|a|son
and|to|this|great|design|all|happn|as|he|would|three hundred and forty-five
he|his|intend|cours|that|clerk|manag|could
thus|quaint|train|us|on|sinc|he|perceiv|d|us|prone
here|onli|to|be|rul|d|by|princ|of|our|own
our|natur|therein|he|great|did|approv
and|public|protest|that|for|the|ancient|love|three|o
he|ever|bare|to|wale|they|all|should|i|lain|see
that|he|had|found|out|one|their|sovereign|lord|to|be
com|n|of|the|race|of|king|and|in|their|countri|born
could|not|one|english|word|of|which|he|durst|be|sworn
besid|his|upright|heart|and|innoc|was|such|three hundred and fifty-five
as|that|he|was|assur|d|black|envi|could|not|touch
his|spotless|life|in|ought|poor|ave|that|not|espi
his|subtleti|herein|in|plain|simplic
a|king|both|valiant|and|polit
the|ninth|song|thirteen
soon|bound|ourselv|by|oath|his|choic|not|to|refus
when|as|that|crafti|king|his|littl|child|doth|choos|36o
young|edward|born|in|ifal|and|of|carnarvan|call|d
thus|by|the|english|craft|we|britan|were|enthral|d
yet|in|thine|own|behalf|dear|countri|dare|to|say
thou|long|as|power|wert|as|eiujland|everi|way
and|if|she|overmuch|should|seek|thee|to|imbas|sas
tell|her|thou|art|the|nurs|of|all|the|british|race|j
and|he|that|was|by|heaven|appoint|to|unit
after|that|tedious|war|the|eed|rose|and|the|ayhit
a|tudor|was|of|thine|and|nativ|of|thi|mon
from|avhom|descend|that|king|now|sit|on|her|throne
this|speech|by|siiowduii|made|so|lucki|was|to|pleas|three hundred and seventy-one
both|parti|and|them|both|with|such|content|t|appeas
that|as|befor|they|strove|for|sovereignti|and|place
they|onli|now|contend|avhich|most|should|other|grace
into|the|irish|sea|then|all|those|eill|that|ron|three hundred and seventy-five
in|snoivdou|s|prais|to|speak|immedi|begon
lewenni|lijnart|next|then|givdhj|gave|it|out
and|kerriog|her|compeer|soon|told|it|all|about
so|did|their|sisternymph|that|into|me7ia|strain
the|flood|that|doth|divid|hon|from|the|cambrian|main|sso
it|gorwaij|great|prai|d|and|seint|it|loud|song
so|mighti|suowdou|s|speech|was|through|carnarvan|rong
that|scarc|such|a|nois|to|3ioii|from|menu|came
when|with|his|puissant|troop|for|conquest|of|the|same
on|bridg|made|of|boat|the|roman|power|her|sought|ass
or|edward|to|her|sack|his|english|armi|brought
that|mona|strang|stirr|d|great|snowdon|s|prais|to|hear
although|the|stock|of|tro|to|her|was|ever|dear
yet|from|her|proper|worth|as|she|befor|all|other
was|call|d|in|former|time|her|countri|cambria|s|mother
persuad|was|therebi|her|prais|to|pursu|syi
or|by|neglect|to|lose|what|to|herself|was|due
fourteen|polyolbion
a|sign|to|neptun|sent|his|boistrous|rage|to|slake
which|sudden|becalm|d|thus|of|herself|she|spake
what|one|of|all|the|isl|to|cambria|doth|belong|three hundred and ninety-five
to|britain|i|might|say|and|yet|not|do|her|wrong
doth|equal|me|in|soil|so|good|for|grass|and|grain|one
as|should|my|jvale|where|still|brute|s|offspr|doth|remain
that|mighti|store|of|men|yet|more|of|beast|doth|breed
by|famin|or|by|war|constrain|be|to|need|four hundred
and|england|s|neighhonr|shire|their|succour|would|deni
my|onli|self|her|want|could|plenteous|suppli
what|island|is|there|found|upon|the|irish|coast
in|which|that|kingdom|seem|to|be|delight|most
and|seek|you|all|along|the|rough|vergivian|shore|4or
where|the|incountr|tide|outrag|do|roar
that|bow|not|at|my|beck|as|they|to|me|did|owe
the|duti|subject|sliould|unto|their|sovereign|show
so|that|th|euhonian|man|a|kingdom|long|time|known
avhich|wise|hath|been|rul|d|by|princ|of|her|own|four hundred and ten
in|my|allianc|joy|as|in|th|albanian|sea
the|arran|and|by|them|the|scattr|eubidc
eejoic|even|at|my|name|and|put|on|mirth|cheer
when|of|my|good|estat|they|by|the|seanymph|hear
sometim|within|my|shade|in|mani|an|ancient|wood
whose|oftentwintd|top|great|fhcebus|fire|withstood|four hundred and ten
the|fearless|british|priest|under|an|age|oak
take|a|milkwhit|bull|unstrain|with|the|yoke
and|with|an|axe|of|gold|from|that|csacr|tree
the|mistleto|cut|down|then|with|a|bend|knee|four hundred and twenty
on|th|unhew|d|altar|laid|put|to|the|hallow|d|fire
and|whilst|in|the|sharp|flame|the|trembl|flesh|expir
as|their|strong|furi|mov|d|when|all|the|rest|ador
pronounc|their|desir|the|sacrific|befor
isl|upou|the|west|of|scotland
the|ninth|song|fifteen
up|to|th|etern|heav|n|their|bloodi|hand|did|rear|four hundred and twenty-five
and|whilst|the|murmur|wood|ev|n|shuddr|as|with
fear
preach|d|to|the|beardless|youth|the|soul|s|immort|state
to|other|bodi|still|how|it|should|transmigr
that|to|contempt|of|death|them|strong|might|excit
to|dwell|in|my|black|shade|the|woodgod|did|delight
untrodden|with|resort|that|long|so|gloomi|were|four hundred and thirty-one
as|when|the|roman|came|it|strook|him|sad|with|fear
to|look|upon|my|face|which|then|was|call|d|the|dark
until|in|after|time|the|english|for|a|mark
gave|me|this|hate|name|which|i|must|ever|bear|four hundred and thirty-five
and|anglesi|i|from|them|am|call|everywher
my|brook|to|whose|sweet|brim|the|sijlvam|did|resort
in|glide|through|my|shade|to|mighti|neptun|s|court
of|their|huge|oak|bereft|to|heaven|so|open|lie
that|now|there|is|not|a|root|discern|d|by|ani|eye|four hundred and forty
my|brent|a|pretti|beck|attend|meiia|s|mouth
with|those|her|sister|rill|that|bear|upon|the|south
gwlnt|forth|along|with|her|lewenni|that|doth|draw
and|next|to|them|again|the|fat|and|moori|fraw
which|with|my|princ|s|court|i|sometim|plea|d|to
grace|four hundred and forty-five
as|those|that|to|the|west|direct|run|their|race
smooth|alio|in|her|fall|that|lynon|in|doth|take
mathanon|that|amain|doth|tovvrd|moylroniad|make
the|seacalf|to|behold|that|bleach|them|on|her|shore
which|giveg|to|her|get|as|to|increas|her|store|four hundred and fifty
then|dida|to|the|north|that|stiaineth|as|to|see
the|isl|that|breedeth|mice|whose|store|so|loathsom|be
that|she|in|neptwm|s|brack|her|bluish|head|doth|hide
when|now|the|weari|muse|her|burthen|have|pli|d
herself|awhil|betak|to|bath|her|in|the|sound|four hundred and five
and|quit|in|her|cours|the|good|monuin|ground
sixteen
polyolbion
assay|the|penmemnaur|and|her|clear|eye|doth|throw
on|comcay|towrd|the|east|to|england|back|to|go
where|find|denbigh|fair|and|flint|not|out|of|sight
cri|yet|afresh|for|jrale|and|for|brute|s|ancient|right|four hundred and nine
illustr
oee|western|are|you|carri|into|merioneth|car
narvmi|anglesey|and|those|maritim|coast|of
nortlvwal
fourteen|the|last|her|genuin|law|which|stout|did|retain
under|william|rnfus|the|normanenglish|anim|by
the|good|success|which|bohert|fltshamon|had|first|against
ree|ap|tiddour|princ|oi|southwal|and|afterward|against
jestin|lord|of|glamorgan|be|veri|desir|of|these|welsh
territori|hugh|surnam|wolf|earl|of|chester|did|ho
mage|to|the|king|for|tegengl|and|rijvonioc|with|all|the|land
by|the|sea|unto|comcey|and|thus|pretend|titl|got|also
possess|of|merioneth|from|gntjjith|ap|coium|princ|of
nmilhwal|but|he|soon|recov|it|and|thenc|left|it
continu|in|his|poster|until|lhewehjin|ap|grujifh|under
edward|i|lost|it|himself|and|all|his|dominion|murea
other|part|of|south|and|i|vest|wale|especi|had|befor
subject|themselv|to|the|english|crown|this|through
frequenc|of|craggi|mountain|access|with|too|much
difficulti|be|the|last|strong|refug|until|that|period|of
fatal|conquest
powel|ad|carailoc|lhaucarv|et|camden
vol|ii
eighteen|rolyolbiox
forty-one|of|tjios|two|nobl|arm|into|the|land|that|hear
in|the|confin|of|merioneth|and|cardigan|where|these
river|joint|pour|themselv|into|the|irish|ocean|are
these|two|arm|or|creek|of|the|sea|famous|as|he|saith
through|giflnethhi|that|is|one|of|the|old|titl|of|this
north|one|rale|by|their|name|of|cvacth|iilnlur|and|tractii
thirty-three|ich|in|ie|as|it|were|the|great|haven|and|the|littl
haven|racth|in|british|signifi|a|tract|of|sand
whereon|the|sea|flow|and|the|ebb|discov
forty-eight|into|that|spacious|lake|ivher|dee|unmixm|doth|flow
that|is|lhintegid|otherwis|call|by|the|english|pemel
mere|through|which|dee|rise|in|this|part|run|whole|and
unmix|neither|lake|nor|river|communic|to|each
other|water|or|fish|as|the|anthor|anon|tell|you|in|the
ancient|is|rememb|s|iecial|the|like|of|ilhosn|run
unmix|and|as|it|were|over|the|lake|of|geneva|as|for|a
greater|wonder|the|most|learn|casaubon|hath|deliv
also|of|ann|run|whole|through|ehosn|and|diver
other|such|like|are|in|ile|s|collect|of|natur|s|most
strang|eff|ect|in|water
seventy-six|the|multitud|of|wolv|that|long|this|land|annoy|d
our|excel|edgar|have|first|enlarg|his|name|with
dilig|and|religi|perform|of|charit|magnific
among|his|english|and|confirm|the|farspread|opinion|of
his|great|by|receipt|of|homag|at|chester|from|eight
king|as|you|shall|see|in|and|to|the|next|song|for|in
creas|of|his|benefit|toward|the|isl|join|wit|preserva
tion|of|his|crownduti|convert|the|tribut|of|the|ehh
oirald|itincrar|two|cap|zero
ainiiiiau|marcel|hist|fifteen|pomp|mel|lib|two|pliu|jjiat|kat
two|cap|one hundred and three
ad|strabon|lib|s
rile|ninth|soxg|v
into|three|hundr|wolv|a|year|as|the|author|shew
the|king|that|paid|it
sthrr|rrr|he|hulti|i|a|tcrme|rrat|ac|it|bcrthc|bias|brlvtntjc
jor|he|scnuc|the|lung|bjoiu|that|he|ne|might|ne|mo|bintfc
as|accord|to|the|stori|my|old|rhymer|deliv|it
whom|you|are|to|account|for|this|ludwal|king|of|jfale|in
the|jfelsh|histori|except|hoicel|a|jevaf|that|made|war
against|his|uncl|iigo|deliv|his|father|and|took|on
himself|the|whole|princip|toward|the|later|year|of
edgar|i|know|not|but|this|was|not|an|utter|destruct
of|them|for|sinc|that|time|the|manor|of|plddleseij|in
leicestershir|was|held|b|one|henri|of|angag|per|serjean
tiam|capiendi|lupo|as|the|inquisit|deliv|it
ninety-five|s|helen|s|icondr|waij
by|festeneog|in|the|confin|of|caernarvan|and|merioneth
is|this|highway|of|note|so|call|by|the|british|and|sup
pose|made|by|that|helen|mother|to|constantim|among|her
other|good|deed|of|whom|to|the|last|song|befor
one hundred and nine|as|level|as|the|lake|until|the|general|flood
so|is|the|opinion|of|some|divin|that|until|after|the
flood|were|no|mountain|but|that|by|congest|of|sand
earth|and|such|stuff|as|we|now|see|hill|strang|fraught
with|in|the|water|they|were|first|cast|up|but|in|that|true
secretari|of|divin|and|natur|selomoh|speak|as|in
the|person|of|wisdom|you|read|befor|the|nwantain|were
found|and|befor|the|mil|i|iva|form|that|is|befor|the
world|s|begin|and|in|holi|writ|elsewher|the|moun
tain|ascend|and|the|valley|desceiul|to|the|place|where|thou|didst
itiii|leicest|twenty-seven|hen|three|in|archiv|turr|londtn
his|post|alio|refragatur|b|penrln|i|m|gouo|one|qiuvst|one hundred and one
iroverb|eight|psalm|one hundred and four
twenty-two
twenty|polyolbion
found|thsm|good|author|to|justifi|mountain|befor
the|flood|the|same|question|hath|been|of|isl|but|i|will
peremptorili|determin|neither
one hundred and thirty-nine|and|with|stern|olus|hlast|like|theti|ivar|rank
the|southwest|wind|constrain|between|two|hill|on
both|side|of|the|lake|sometim|so|violent|fill|the|kiver
out|of|the|lake|s|store|that|both|have|been|affirm|but
somewhat|against|truth|never|to|be|disturb|or|overflow
but|upon|tempestu|blast|wherea|inde|as|fowel|de
liver|they|are|overfil|with|rain|and|landflood|as|well
as|other|water|but|most|of|all|move|by|that|impetu
wind
one hundred and sixty-two|still|deloslik|wherein|a|ivandr|isl|doth|float
of|this|isl|in|the|water|on|top|of|snoicdon|and|of|one
eye|eel|trout|and|perch|in|anoth|lake|there|girald
is|wit|let|him|perform|his|word|one|will|not|be|his
sureti|for|it|the|author|allud|to|that|state|of|delo
which|is|feign|befor|it|was|with|pillar|fasten|in|the
sea|for|latona|s|childbirth
one hundred|that|with|the|term|of|welsh|the|english|now|imhas
for|this|name|of|jfehh|is|unknown|to|the|british|them
selv|and|impos|on|them|as|an|ancient|and|common
opinion|is|by|the|saxon|call|them|walsh|ie|stranger
other|fabul|have|talk|of|jfallo|and|ifandolena|whenc
it|should|be|deriv|but|you|shall|come|nearer|truth|if
upon|the|communiti|of|name|custom|and|origin|twixt
the|gaul|and|iiiiton|you|conjectur|them|call|walsh|as
it|were|gualsh|the|aoftentim|be|instead|of|the|gu
which|express|them|to|be|gaul|rather|than|stranger
pindar|ap|straboii|lil|ten
the|ninth|song|twenty-one
although|in|the|saxon|which|is|observ|it|was|use|for
the|name|of|gaul|stranger|and|barbar|perhap|in|such
kind|as|in|this|kingdom|the|name|of|frenchman|liath|by
inclus|comprehend|all|kind|of|alien
two hundred and three|jvas|littl|britain|calvd
see|a|touch|of|this|in|the|passag|of|the|virgin|to|the
eiirhth|sonfj|other|affirm|that|under|constantinej|of|our
briton|coloni|were|there|place|and|from|some|of|these
the|name|of|that|now|dukedom|to|have|had|it|begin
there|be|also|that|will|justifi|the|british|name|to|have
been|in|that|tract|long|befor|and|for|proof|cite|dionysim
afcr|and|riiiui|but|for|the|first|it|is|not|like|that|he
ever|meant|that|contin|but|this|of|our|as|the|learn
tell|you|and|for|plini|see|he|reckon|his|briton|of|gaul
in|the|confin|of|the|now|franc|and|lower|germani|it|is
as|unlik|that|twixt|them|and|littl|breiaign|should|be
ani|such|habitud|you|want|not|author|affirm|that
our|briton|from|them|befor|they|from|our|had|deduc
tion|of|this|nation|titl|but|my|belief|admit|it|not|the
surer|opinion|is|to|refer|the|name|unto|those|briton|which
be|expel|the|island|at|the|entri|of|the|saxon|got
them|new|habit|in|this|maritim|part|as|besid|other
author|an|express|assert|is|in|an|old|fragment|of|a
french|histori|which|you|may|join|with|most|worthi
camden|s|treatis|on|this|matter|whither|for|a|learn|de
clarat|of|it|i|send|you
one|buchanan|scotic|hist|two
two|bract|lib|three|tract|two|cap|fifteen|leg|six|conquest|et|d|coke|in
cas|calvin
maluiesb|cle|gest|reg|one
paul|mcrul|cosmog|part|two|lib|three|cap|thirty-one
v|eustath|ad|eundem
hist|nat|lib|four|cap|seventeen|quern|super|ligerini|britano|hos|sito
dixiss|miror|p|merulam|tarn|constant|attirniass
bed|lib|one|cap|three|quern|seeutus|p|morula
eight|ex|ms|ciuuob|floriac|edit|per|p|pitlueum
twenty-two|polyolbion
two hundred and six|forewarnm|was|in|dream|that|of|the|briton|reign
cadicallad|driven|to|forsak|this|land|especi|by
reason|of|plagu|and|famin|tyrann|among|his|subject
join|with|continu|irrupt|of|the|english|retir|him
self|into|littl|bretaign|to|his|cousin|alan|there|king
where|in|a|dream|he|was|admonish|by|an|angel|i|justifi
it|but|by|the|stori|that|a|period|of|the|british|empir|was
now|come|and|until|time|of|merlin|s|propheci|given|to
king|arthur|his|countri|or|poster|should|have|no|resti
tution|and|further|that|he|should|take|his|journey|to
eom|where|for|a|transitori|he|might|receiv|an|etern
kingdom|alan|upon|report|of|this|vision|compar|it
with|the|eagl|propheci|the|sihjw|vers|and|merlin
nor|found|he|but|all|were|concord|in|predict|of|this
ceas|of|the|britit|h|monarchi|through|his|advic|there
fore|and|a|prepar|affect|cadwallad|take|voyag|to
born|receiv|of|pp|sergius|with|holi|tinctur|the|name
of|peter|and|within|veri|short|time|there|die|his|bodi
veri|late|under|pope|gregori|the|xiii|was|found|buri
by|s|peter|s|tomb|where|it|yet|remain|and|jlhite|of
basingstok|say|he|had|a|piec|of|his|raiment|of|a|chesnut
colour|taken|up|with|the|corps|uncorrupt|which|he
account|as|a|romish|pupil|no|slight|miracl|it|was|ad
among|british|tradit|that|when|cadivallad|s|bone
were|brought|into|this|isl|then|should|the|poster|of
their|princ|have|restitut|concern|that|you|have
enough|to|the|second|song|observ|concurr|of|time
and|differ|of|relat|in|the|stori|of|this|princ|i|know
not|well|how|to|give|myself|or|the|reader|satisfact|in
moninoxith|robert|of|glocest|flarilegus|and|their|follow
see|to|tlie|scconil|song
anton|major|ap|basingstoch|lil|one|nit|l
ranulph|higden|lib|cap|jo
tee|ninth|song|twenty-three
cadwallad|is|made|the|son|of|ciulwallo|king|of|the|brilom
befor|him|but|so|that|he|descend|also|from|enrjlkh
saxon|blood|his|mother|be|daughter|to|fenda|king|of
mercland|our|jmonk|call|him|king|of|westsaxon|suc
cessor|to|kentwiii|and|son|to|kenhrith|and|where|caradoc
lhancarvan|tell|you|of|war|twixt|lie|or|ivor|successor|to
cadioallad|and|keidwin|it|appear|in|our|chronograph
that|kentwin|must|be|dead|abov|three|year|befor|but
howsoev|these|thing|might|be|reconcil|i|think
clear|that|cadwallad|in|the|british|and|cedwalla|king
of|westsaxon|in|bede|malmesburij|florenc|huntingdon
and|other|stori|of|the|english|are|not|the|same|as|geffrc
and|out|of|girald|fuindal|of|chester|and|other|sinc|erro
neousli|have|affirm|but|strong|you|may|hold|that
cadivallo|or|caswallo|live|about|eight hundred and forty|slain|by|oswald|king
of|northumberland|was|the|same|with|bede|s|first|cedwaua
avhom|he|call|king|of|briton|and|that|by|misconceit|of|his
two|cedwal|the|other|be|almost|fifti|year|after|king
of|ifestsaxon|and|by|communic|of|each|other|s|attri
bute|upon|indistinct|name|without|observ|of|their
sever|time|these|discord|relat|of|them|which|in
stori|are|too|palpabl|had|their|first|be|but|to|satisfi
you|in|present|i|keep|myself|to|the|cours|of|our|ordinari
stori|by|reason|of|difficulti|in|find|an|exact|truth|in
all|touch|his|go|to|botn|thus|some|will|that|he
was|christian|befor|and|receiv|of|sergius|onli|confirma
tion|other|that|he|had|there|his|first|baptism|and|live
not|abov|a|month|after|which|time|to|make|all|disson
is|extend|to|eight|year|in|ijutncarvau|that|one|king
cedwidl|went|to|fome|is|plain|by|all|with|his|newimpos
name|and|burial|there|for|his|baptism|befor|i|have|no
cedwalla|rex|britonmn|bod|hist|eccl|three|cap|one|c|vterum|v
nennium|ap|caincl|in|ottadiui|pay|gg4|et|0g5|et|bed|lib|five
cap|seven
twenty-four|polyolbion
direct|author|but|in|foj|ichronicon|mani|argument
proang|him|inde|a|wellwili|to|christian|but|as|one
that|had|not|yet|receiv|it|holi|testimoni|the|veri
phrase|in|most|of|our|historian|is|plain|that|he|was|bap
tize|and|so|also|his|epitaph|then|made|at|home|in|part
here|insert
one|fercipinsqii|alac|recuvkw|prcemia|vitc
barharicam|rabiem|nomen|et|ind|suum
conversus|convertit|ovan|petrumqu|vocari
sergius|antist|jussit|ut|ips|pater
font|renascenti|quern|christi|gratia|purgan
protinus|ablatum|vexit|in|arc|poli
this|show|also|his|short|life|afterward|and|agre|fulli
wdth|the|english|stori|his|honor|affect|to|religion
befor|his|cleans|mark|of|regener|is|seen|in|that
kind|respect|given|by|him|to|jnifrld|first|bishop|of|selesey
in|sussex|where|the|episcop|see|of|chichest|hither|was
it|translat|from|selesey|under|jfluiam|the|conqueror
acknowledg|in|public|monument|rather|him|founder
than|edilwukh|the|first|christian|king|of|that|provinc
from|whom|cedicalla|violent|took|both|life|and|kingdom
nor|doth|it|less|appear|in|that|his|pay|tenth|of|such
spoil|as|by|war|s|fortun|accru|to|his|great|which
notwithstand|although|done|by|one|then|not|receiv
into|the|church|of|either|testament|is|not|without|mani
exampl|among|the|ancient|gentil|who|therein|imit
the|hebrew|tith|much|of|their|possess|and|acquir
substanc|to|such|deiti|as|unhallow|religion|taught
them|to|ador|which|whether|they|did|upon|mysteri|in
bed|eccl|hist|lib|five|cap|seven|eurjltxlml|in|substanc|if|you|say
he|vkm|hnptheil|and|won|tie|aciir|g88|judici|conjectur
can|not|but|attribut|ail|this|to|the|vinitsaxon|cedwal|and|not|the
jirituih|hjee|to|the|eleventh|son
the|ninth|song|twenty-five
the|number|or|therein|as|pay|first|fruit|for|the|word
nno3|which|was|for|jber|offer|and|ncto|for|mdchi
serfeci|s|tith|accord|to|that|less|calcuhxt|in|cabalist
concord|of|ident|in|differ|word|are|of|equal
number|and|by|consequ|of|like|interpret|i|leav
to|my|reader|speak|of|this|i|can|not|but|wonder|at
that|veri|wonder|of|learn|joseph|scalig|affirm
tith|among|those|ancient|onli|payabl|to|hercul
wherea|by|express|wit|of|an|old|inscript|at|delpho
and|the|common|report|of|camillus|it|is|justifi|that|both
cheek|and|roman|did|the|like|to|apollo|and|no|less|among
them|and|other|togeth|was|to|3iar|jupit|jum|and
the|number|of|god|in|general|to|whom|the|athenian
dedic|the|tenth|part|of|lesbo|he|which|the|author
after|the|british|call|here|ivor|is|affirm|the|same|avith
lie|king|of|westsex|in|our|monkish|chronicl|although
there|be|scarc|ani|congruiti|twixt|them|in|his|descent
what|follow|is|but|histor|and|continu|success|of
their|princ
two hundred and seventy-two|more|excel|than|those|which|our|good|howel|here
for|howel|dha|first|princ|of|southwal|and|poici
after|upon|death|of|his|cousin|eclwal|voel|of|noiihwal
also|by|matur|advic|in|a|full|council|of|baron|and
bishop|made|diver|univers|constitut|by|these
wale|until|edward|i|was|rule|so|some|say|but|the
truth|is|that|befor|ed|i|conquer|jtale|and|as|it
seem|from|twentyeighth|but|especi|thirtyfifth|of
ratio|cabalistica|minor|secumlum|quam|centeuario|qiiolibet
et|ueiiario|uuitateiu|accipiuut|rcliquo|uuiuero|in|iitro|ne|vocabulo
retinent|uti|archangel|bergonoven|in|dog|cabalistici
acl|festura|verb|decuna
clemen|alexan|l|strom|a|et|steph|nipi|wox|in|kopiytv
tantundem|pr|eter|alio|quam|lurinio
lucian|trtoi|opxatiof|et|varro|ap|macrob|three|cap|eleven
herodot|a|samii|apud|herodot|five|thucydid|hist|y
twenty-six|polyolbion
hen|iii|his|empir|enlarg|among|them|the|english
king|s|writ|did|run|there|for|when|ed|i|sent|com
mission|to|itcgmald|of|grey|thama|bishop|of|s|dewi
and|jfulter|of|h|ypton|to|enquir|of|their|custom|and|by
what|law|they|were|rule|diver|case|were|upon|oath
return|which|by|and|accord|to|the|king|s|law|if|it
were|between|lord|or|the|princ|themselv|had|been
determin|if|between|tenant|then|by|the|lord|s|seis
it|into|his|hand|until|discoveri|of|the|titl|in|his|court
but|also|that|none|were|decid|by|the|law|of|howel|lha
of|them|in|lhuyiv|annot|to|the|ivehh|chronicl|you
have|some|particular|and|in|the|roll|which|hath|aid|me
touch|those|other|of|molmutius|and|ifartia|somewhat
to|the|ninth|song
two hundred and eighty-one|us|to|suhjcctioi|sfooj|of|malc|us|briton|hear
th|unwieldi|norman|yoke
snowdon|proper|speak|all|for|the|glori|of|his|countri
and|follow|supposit|of|the|british|stori|discord
herein|with|our|for|in|matthew|pari|and|flmilegus
under|the|year|one thousand and seventy-eight|i|read|that|the|conqveror|subdu
wale|and|took|homag|and|hostag|of|the|princ|so|of
hen|i|one thousand, one hundred and thirteen|hen|one|in|one thousand, one hundred and fifty-seven|and|other|time|of|this
hen|il|hath|been|understood|that|propheci|of|merlin
jflien|the|frecldefac|princ|so|was|the|king|pass|over
3hi|tl|jjcjtfnru|then|should|the|welsh|forc|he|weaken
for|he|in|this|expedit|against|dice|nji|gryffith|into|soutir
w|des|come|mount|near|that|ford|in|glamorgan|his
steed|mad|with|sudden|sound|of|trumpet|on|the
bank|violent|out|of|the|purpos|way|carri|him
through|the|ford|which|compar|with|that|of|merlin
ave|to|the|jkitish|armi|no|small|discomfitur|as|a
rot|iau3|do|anil|one|ed|i|in|arcliiv|turr|londin
the|ford|at|the|hock|s|head
the|ninth|song|twenty-seven
camhrobrifon|then|live|hath|deliv|but|that|their
stori|and|our|are|so|differ|in|these|thing|it|can|be|no
marvel|to|ani|that|know|how|often|it|is|use|among
historian|to|flatter|their|own|nation|and|wrong|the
honour|of|their|enemi|see|the|first|note|here|for|eufii
his|time
two hundred and ninety-nine|and|from|the|english|power|the|imperi|standard|took
henrij|of|essex|at|this|time|standardbear|to|hen|ii
in|a|strait|at|coimsilth|near|flint|cast|down|the|standard
therebi|anim|the|welsh|and|discomfit|the|english
ad|much|danger|to|the|dishonour|he|was|afterward
accus|by|robert|of|montfort|of|a|traitor|design|in|the
action|to|clear|himself|he|challeng|the|combat|they
both|with|the|royal|assent|and|judici|cours|by|law|of
arm|enter|the|list|where|montfort|had|the|victori|and
essex|pardon|for|his|life|but|forfeit|all|his|substanc
enter|eeligion|and|profess|in|the|abbey|of|bead
where|the|combat|was|perform|i|rememb|a|great|clerk
of|those|time|say|that|montfort|spent|a|whole|night|of|de
votion|to|s|deius|so|i|understand|him|although|his|copi
seem|corrupt|which|could|make|champion|invinc
whereto|he|refer|the|success|tiiat|it|was|usual|for|com
batant|to|pray|overnight|to|sever|saint|is|plain|by
our|lawann
three hundred and twenty|or|ani|ear|had|heard|the|sound|of|florida
about|the|year|one thousand, one hundred and fifty-seven|madoc|hrother|to|david|a|owen
princ|of|pfale|made|this|seavoyag|and|by|proba
girakl|itiuerar|one|cap|six
do|quo|si|placet|videa|compendio|apud|alber|gcntil|de
arm|rom|one|cap|one
gul|de|novo|burgo|lib|two|cap|five
joann|sarisburien|ep|one hundred and fifty-nine
thirty|ed|iii|fol|twenty
twenty-three|polyolbion
biliti|those|name|of|capo|de|breton|in|nonmheg|and
penguin|in|part|of|the|xorthern|america|for|a|white|fmk
and|a|jjliitehead|bird|accord|to|the|british|were|relic
of|this|discoveri|so|that|the|jfelsh|may|challeng|prioriti
of|find|that|new|world|befor|the|spaniard|gcnoiray
and|all|other|mention|in|lopez|marineus|cortez|and|the
rest|of|that|kind
three hundred and twenty-one|and|with|that|croggin|s|luim|let|th|english|us|disgrac
the|first|becaus|of|this|name|take|thus|in|one|of|henri
the|ii|his|expedit|into|jvale|diver|of|his|camp|sent
to|assay|a|passag|over|offasdik|at|crogen|castl|were
entertain|with|prevent|by|british|forc|most|of|them
there|slain|and|to|present|view|yet|lie|buri|after
ward|this|word|crogen|the|english|use|to|the|jrelsh|but
as|remembr|becaus|of|reveng|for|such|a|slaughter
although|time|hath|made|it|usual|in|ignor|mouth|for|a
disgrac|attribut
three hundred and twenty-six|to|his|unbridl|will|our|neck|we|never|bow|d
suffici|justifi|is|this|of|king|john|although|our
monk|therein|not|much|discord|from|british|relat
deliv|that|he|subdu|all|jfale|especi|this|xorthern
part|unto|snoicdun|and|receiv|twenti|hostag|for|sureti
of|futur|obedi|for|at|first|lhewelin|a|joruerth
princ|of|northlfal|had|by|forc|join|with|strata
gem|the|better|hand|and|compel|the|english|camp
to|victual|themselv|with|horsefiesh|but|afterward|in
deed|upon|a|second|rode|made|into|jlik|king|john|had
the|conquest|tlii|compar|with|those|chang|ensu
gutyn|owen|in|lhevjelin|ap|jonverth
note|that|northwalm|was|the|chief|princip|and|to|it
southmil|and|pow|w|paid|a|tribut|as|out|of|the|law|of|ilowti
dim|is|note|by|doctor|poivel
the|ninth|song|twenty-nine
upon|the|pope|s|wrong|uncrown|hira|his|baron
rebellion|and|advantag|in|the|mean|time|taken|by|the
jpelsh|prove|onli|that|his|win|here|were|littl|better
than|imaginari|as|on|a|tragic|stage|the|stori|may
but|it|fit|not|me|to|inform|you|of|larg|particular
three hundred and thirty-two|as|fate|had|spard|our|fall|till|edward|longshank
reign
but|withal|observ|the|truth|of|stori|in|the|mean|time
of|all|our|king|until|john|somewhat|you|have|alreadi
after|him|han|iii|laad|war|with|lhewelin|a|jonverth
who|a|most|worthi|princ|desir|to|bless|his|feebler
day|with|such|compos|quiet|as|inclin|age|affect|at
last|put|himself|into|the|king|s|protect|within|short
space|die|left|all|to|his|son|david|and|griijf|fh|but
david|onli|be|legitim|had|titl|of|govern|he
by|charter|submit|himself|and|his|princip|to|the
english|crown|acknowledg|that|he|would|stand|to|the
judgment|of|the|king|s|court|in|c|mtroversi|twixt|his
brother|and|himself|and|that|what|portion|soever|were|so
allot|to|either|of|them|they|would|hold|of|the|crown
in|chief|and|briefli|make|himself|and|his|baron|they
join|in|do|homag|tenant|and|subject|of|england
all|this|was|confirm|by|oath|but|the|oath|through
favour|purchas|at|born|and|deleg|author|in|that
kind|to|the|abbot|of|coivei|and|llemer|was|accord|to
persuas|of|those|time|the|more|easili|induc|becaus
gain|of|regal|liberti|was|the|consequ|soon|releas
and|in|lieu|of|obedi|they|all|drew|their|rebelli
sword|wliereto|they|were|the|sooner|urg|for|that|the
king|had|transfer|the|princip|of|j|talc|by|name|of
one|charta|davidi|twenty-five|hen|three|sfncn|wife|to|oriffih|then|i|am
prison|was|with|other|a|pledg|for|her|husband|s|part
in|archiv|scaccar|et|polydor|hist|angl|ig
thirty|folyolbion
una|cum|conquestu|nostra|jvall|m|to|princ|edward|long
shank|afterward|edward|i|sinc|when|our|sovereign|s
eldest|son|have|born|that|hope|titl|but|avhen|this
edward|after|his|father|succeed|in|the|english|crown
soon|came|that|fatal|convers|here|spoken|of|by|the
author|even|execut|in|as|great|and|worthi|a|princ|as
ever|that|third|part|of|the|isl|was|rule|by|that|is
lhewdin|a|grvffiit|who|after|uncertain|fortun|of|war
on|both|side|and|revolt|of|southiral|was|constrain
to|enter|a|truce|or|rather|subject|resign|his|princi
paliti|to|be|annex|wholli|to|the|crown|after|his|death
and|reserv|for|his|life|onli|the|isl|of|anglesey|and|five
baroni|in|snowdon|for|which|the|king|s|exchequ|should
receiv|a|year|rent|of|one|thousand|mark|grant|also
that|all|the|baroni|in|jvale|should|be|held|of|the|king
except|those|five|reserv|with|diver|other|particular
in|walsingluim|mattheio|of|westminst|nichola|trivet|and
humfrey|lhuyd|at|larg|report|the|articl|of|this
instrument|were|not|long|observ|but|at|length|the|death
of|llieioelin|spend|his|last|breath|for|mainten|of|his
ancestor|right|against|his|own|coven|freeli|cast|upon
king|edinird|all|that|whereof|he|was|as|it|were|institut
there|what|ensu|and|how|jfale|was|govern|after
ward|and|subject|to|england|stori|and|the|statut|of
rathlan|will|larg|show|you|and|see|what|i|have|to|the
seventh|song|in|all|that|follow|concern|edward|of
carnarvan|the|author|is|i|lain|enough|and|conclud
observ|this|proper|person|of|snowdon|hill|avhos
limit|and|adjac|territori|are|best|wit|both|of
the|english|assault|and|pacifi|coven|between|both
princ
one|one thousand, two hundred and seventy-seven|twelve|ed|one
rile|ninth|song|thirty-one
three hundred and ninety|ifa|call|d|in|former|time|her|countri|cambria|s|mother
in|the|welsh|proverb|iilon|mam|cumbri|in|such
sens|as|sidl|was|style|itahj|s|storehous|by|reason|of
fertil|ground|and|plenteous|liber|of|corn|thenc|year
suppli|and|girald|tell|me|that|this|littl|isl|was
will|not|to|be|abl|to|furnish|all|jfale|with|such|provis|as
snmcdon|hill|were|for|pastur|of|it|antiqu|and
particidar|with|plain|confut|of|that|idl|opinion|in
polydor|hector|boethius|and|other|take|the|nowcal
isl|of|man|for|this|mon|now|angkseij|learn|lhiiijd|in
his|epistl|to|ortelius|hath|suffici|although|it|be
divid|as|an|isl|but|rather|by|a|shallow|ford|than
a|sea|and|in|the|roman|time|we|see|by|tacitus|that
paulinus|and|agricola|soldier|swam|over|it|yet|is|it|and
of|ancient|time|hath|been|a|counti|by|itself|as|caernarvan
denbigh|and|the|rest|neighbour
four hundred and nine|so|that|the|eubonian|man|a|kingdom|long|time|knoion
it|is|an|isl|lie|twixt|cwnberland|and|the|irish|bonn
counti|almost|in|the|midsea|as|long|sinc|julius|ccesar
could|affirm|call|it|mona|avhich|be|equival|as
well|for|this|as|for|anglesey|hath|with|impostur|blind
some|know|men|nenuia|the|eldest|historian|amongst
us|extant|give|it|the|name|of|eidjoniamanay|like|that
here|use|y|the|author|it|was|of|ancient|time|govern
by|king|of|it|own|as|you|may|see|in|the|chronicl|of
rtijfin|deduc|from|time|of|is|edward|into|the|reign|of
edward|the|second|after|this|the|govern|of|the
english|and|scot|were|now|and|then|interchang|in|it
beiug|at|last|recov|and|with|continu|rule|by|such
as|the|favour|of|our|sovereign|to|whose|crown|it|be
long|honour|with|that|titl|king|of|man|it|is|at
mon|the|mother|of|wale|girald|itiuerar|two|cap|seven|et|nine
strabo|lib|t|jommentar|five|alsiui|h|in|ed|ii
thirty-two|polyolbion
this|day|and|sinc|time|of|henri|iv|hat|been|in|that
nobl|famili|of|the|stanley|earl|of|derhi|as|also|is|the
patronag|of|the|bishopr|of|sodor|whereto|is|all|judici
govern|of|the|isl|refer|there|was|long|sinc|a
controversi|whether|it|belong|to|ireland|or|england|for
you|may|see|in|the|civil|law|with|which|in|that|kind
our|somewhat|agre|tliat|all|lesser|isl|are|reckon|part
of|some|adjoin|contin|if|both|under|the|same|empir
and|this|by|reason|of|the|equal|distanc|from|both|to
decid|it|they|tri|if|it|would|endur|venom|beast
which|is|certain|deni|of|ireland|and|find|that|it
did|adjudg|it|to|our|britain|the|other|isl|here
spoken|of|lie|further|north|by|scotland|and|are|to|it|sub
ject
four hundred and seventeen|the|fearless|british|priest|under|an|age|oak
he|mean|the|druid|becaus|they|are|inde|as|he
call|them|british|priest|and|that|this|island|was|of|old
their|mother|whenc|as|from|a|seminari|gaul|was|fur
nish|with|their|learn|permit|me|some|space|more
larg|to|satisfi|you|in|their|name|fboeession
sacrific|one|lace|of|assemhlimj|and|last|sub
version|the|name|of|druid|hath|been|drawn|from
asd|ie|an|oak|becaus|of|their|continu|use|that|tree
as|superstiti|hallow|accord|as|they|are|call
also|2agov6a|or|youmldig|which|likewis|in|greek|is|old
oak|to|this|compar|the|british|word|drib|of|the|same
signif|and|the|origin|here|sought|iur|will|seem
sure|found|but|one|that|deriv|all|from|dutch|and
camden|in|insuli
two|ulpiiin|rt|le|ludicii|one|nine|et|verb|fig|one|one|nine
three|ioiiograph|hiherti|flist|two|caj|fifteen
ilin|j|list|kat|ten|cap|forty-four
diodor|sicul|de|anti|iuoruin|gestia|fab|t
jloropius|gallic|j
the|ninth|song|thirty-three
prodigi|suppos|tliat|the|first|tonguespoken|make
them|so|style|from|rob|toi|ie|truli|wise|o|express
their|natur|in|their|name|nor|is|this|without|good|reason
of|conjectur|if|the|ground|were|true|see|that|their|like
in|proport|among|the|jew|and|gentil|were|call|until
pythigora|his|time|jfisemen|and|afterward|by|him|turn
into|the|name|of|philosoph|ie|lover|of|wisdom|and
perhap|the|old|dutch|was|as|some|learn|think|commu
nicat|to|gaul|and|from|thenc|hither|the|conjectur
be|somewhat|aid|in|that|attribut|which|they|have|in
pomponius|call|them|master|of|tvisdom|a|late|great
scholar|draw|it|from|cntttn|in|an|old|dutch|copi|of|the
gospel|signifi|as|he|say|god|which|might|be|given
them|hy|hyperbol|of|superstiti|rever|nay|we|see
that|it|is|justifi|by|holi|writ|so|to|call|great|magi
trate|and|judg|as|they|were|among|the|peopl|but
that|avord|trutin|or|trtichtin|in|the|old|angel|salut
zachanf|song|and|simeon|s|publish|by|vulcan|is|alway
lml|as|this|ihithtt|st|tiniciitin|got|ssraelo|ie|bless
he|the|lord|god|of|israel|and|so|in|the|saxon|ten|command
ment|ic|eom|dpihten|sin|god|ie|i|am|the|lord|thi|god
these|are|the|etymolog|which|savour|of|ani|judgment
to|speak|of|king|drui|or|sarron|which|that|dominican
friar|hath|cozen|vulgar|credul|withal|and|thenc
fetch|their|name|accord|to|doctor|jfhite|of|basingstok
aver|with|him|to|suffer|and|at|onc|offer|impostur|of
them|all|i|inclin|to|the|first|see|it|meet|in|both
tongu|greek|and|british|and|somewhat|the|rather|too
aoan|ti|2k|ie|dixerunt|sapient|capnio|de|art|cabalist|one|three
quod|hebnui|in|usu|ut|avrog|t|pt|pythagor|vis|uec|druidum|disci
piili|rcfragari|sentoutii|jiagistronim|fas|erat
geograph|three|cap|two
paul|morula|cosmog|part|two|lib|three|cap|eleven
pricfat|ad|leg|aluredi|saxon
berosus|ill|annianus|subdititius|chaldaic|antiquitat|five
vol|ii|three
thirty-four|polyolbion
becaus|antiqu|did|crown|their|infern|deiti|and
from|dis|if|you|trust|ccesar|the|gaul|and|by|consequ
our|briton|upon|tradit|of|these|priest|drew|their
descent|anth|oak|as|sophocl|hat|it|of|hecat|and
catullus|of|the|three|destini|neither|will|i|desir|you
to|spend|conceit|upon|examin|of|that|supposit|which
make|the|name|corrupt|from|sitrccrglit|which|in
scolthh|were|such|as|had|a|holi|charg|commit|to|them
avhereupon|perhap|bale|say|s|columhan|was|the|chief|of
the|druid|i|reckon|that|among|the|infinit|fabl|and
gross|absurd|whicb|it|author|hath|without|judgment
stuf|himself|withal|for|their|profess|it|was
both|of|learn|profan|and|holi|i|speak|in|all|appli
my|word|to|their|time|they|sat|as|judg|and|deter
mine|all|caus|emerg|civil|and|crimin|subject|the
disobedi|and|such|as|made|default|to|interdict|and
censur|prohibit|them|from|sacr|assembl|take
away|their|capac|in|honour|offic|and|so|disabl
them|that|as|our|now|outlaw|excommun|and|at
taint|person|tliey|miglit|not|commenc|suit|against|ani
man|in|a|multitud|of|vers|they|deliv|what|they
taught|not|suffer|it|to|be|commit|to|write|so|imi
tate|both|cahalist|pithagoixan|and|ancient|christian
but|use|in|other|privat|and|public|inisi|greek|letter
as|ccesar|s|copi|have|but|hereof|see|more|to|the|tenth
song|their|more|jiriv|and|sacr|learn|consist|in
ivin|and|philosopliy|see|somewhat|of|that|to|the|first
soug|which|was|such|that|although|i|think|you|may|truli
in|pizornfi|apiul|scholiast|apollonii|uti|primum|diilici|i|josepho
scaligcro|in|conjectanei
de|nuptii|pelci|et|thetido|three hundred and eight|his|corpus|treimd|urn|c|nbi
vulgati|leest|ista|qux|antiquorum|codicum|lidc|est|vera|lectio
uti|scalig
hector|boeth|scot|hist|two
ciel|khodigin|antiq|lect|ten|cap|one
the|ninth|song|thirty-five
say|with|origen|that|befor|our|saviour|s|time|britain
acknowledg|not|one|true|god|yet|it|came|as|near|to|what
they|should|have|done|or|rather|nearer|than|most|of|other
either|greeh|or|roman|as|by|their|posit|in|casar|sfraho
lucan|and|the|like|discours|of|them|you|may|be|sati
fie|for|although|ajkjuo|mar|and|mercuri|were|wor
ship|among|the|vulgar|gaul|yet|it|appear|that|the
druid|invoc|was|to|one|allheal|or|allsav
power|in|moral|their|instruct|were|so|persuas
and|themselv|of|such|rever|that|the|most|fieri|rage
of|mar|kindl|among|the|peopl|was|by|their|grave|coun
sel|often|quench|out|of|plini|receiv|their|form|of
ritual|sacrific|here|describ|by|the|author|thus
in|such|gloomi|shadow|as|they|most|usual|for|contem
plation|retir|their|ascend|thought|into|after|exact
search|find|an|oak|whereon|a|mistleto|grew|on|the
sixth|day|of|the|moon|abov|all|other|time|in|which|was
begin|of|their|year|they|religi|and|with|invoc
brought|with|them|to|it|a|ceremoni|banquet|materi|for
sacrific|with|two|white|bull|fillet|on|the|horn|all
which|they|place|under|the|oak|one|of|them|honour
with|that|function|cloth|all|in|white|climb|the|tree|and
with|a|golden|knife|or|scyth|cut|the|mistleto|which
they|solemn|wrap|in|one|of|their|white|garment
then|did|they|sacrific|the|bull|earnest|call|on|the
allheal|deiti|to|make|it|prosper|and|happi|on
whomsoev|they|shall|bestow|it|and|account|it|both
preserv|against|all|poison|and|a|remedi|against
barren|if|i|should|imagin|by|this|allheal|deiti
to|be|meant|ajwllo|whom|they|avorship|under|name|of
belin|as|i|tell|you|to|the|eighth|song|my|conjectur|were
one|ad|tehezkel|four|plin|hist|nat|sixteen|cap|forty-four
ytrab|jicograpli|iv|oiiinia|saiianteni
thirty-two
thirty-six|polyolbion
everi|way|receiv|see|that|apollo|had|both|among
gieek|and|latin|the|divin|titl|of|axsizaxoc|aoij|ioc
medicus|and|to|him|the|invoc|was|ir|naav|t|all|con
cur|in|the|same|proof|but|also|if|they|had|as|probabi
liti|is|enough|to|conjectur|it|an|altar|inscrib|for|this
devot|and|use|greek|letter|which|to|the|next|song
shall|be|somewhat|examin|i|could|well|think|the|dedica
tion|thus|conceiv
beainhj
tp
hanakei
ob
beainp|0en
which|veri|probabl|was|meant|by|some|make|in|latin
termin|and|nearer|apoud|name
deo
abellioniil
as|an|inscript|in|gcml|to|abid|memori|commit
by|that|most|nobl|joseph|scalig|is|read|and|perhap
some|relic|or|allus|to|this|name|is|in|that
deo
sancto|bela
tucadeo
yet|remain|in|cumberland|nor|is|it|strang|that
apollo|s|name|should|be|thus|far|of|ancient|time|befor
communic|of|religion|twixt|these|northern|jjart|and
incrob|satnrnal|cap|seventeen
all|tjirc|word|as|much|as|phifician|heal|apovo
to|allheal|apollo|ct|hulutarm|ajwllo|in|isuiiim|apud
goltzium|i|will|thes|to|god|iei|t|to|god|abeltio
ivusoniariim|leot|one|cap|nine|camd|ibid
tee|ninth|song|thirty-seven
the|learn|gentil|see|that|ccesar|affirm|him|for|one
of|their|deiti|and|long|befor|that|abari|about|the
begin|of|the|olympiad|an|huperhorean|is|record|for
apollo|priest|among|the|utmost|scithian|be|further
from|hellen|than|our|british|but|i|return|to|the
mistl|hereto|hath|some|refer|that|which|the|sibyl
counsel|nea|to|carri|with|him|to|proserpin
icdet|arbor|opacd
aureus|et|folii|et|lento|limin|ramus
junoni|infernc|dictn|sacer|hunc|tegit|omni
lucii|et|ohscuri|claudnnt|convallibus|umbrc
which|may|as|well|be|so|appli|as|to|chymistri|see
it|agre|also|with|what|i|spake|befor|of|dis|and|that
virgil|expressli|compar|it|to|the|mistl
quod|non|sua|semin|arbo|f
for|it|spring|out|of|some|particular|natur|of|the|oaken
stem|whereupon|it|is|call|by|an|old|poet|apuhg|ihshjg|j|and
although|it|be|not|ordinarili|found|upon|oak|yet|that|oft
time|it|is|ani|apothecari|can|tell|which|preserveth|it|for
medicin|as|the|ancient|use|to|make|lime|of|it|to|catch
bird|of|which|argentarius|hath|an|admonitori|epigram
to|a|blackbird|that|she|should|not|sing|upon|the|oak|be
becaus|that
i|cividisffi|pspii|tov|avdpaioi|lo|i
but|on|the|vine|dedic|to|bacchus|a|great|favourit|of
hippostrat|ap|suid|in|abar|malcbus|yit|pjthagorr
virgil|zeneid|six|petr|crinit|hist|poet|g|cap|ten
she|direct|him|to|seek|a|golden|branch|in|the|dark|wood|con
secrat|to|proscrjun
bracesch|in|ligno|vitaj|t|vlikh|ijrmc|not|ofusilf
t|hiveat|of|the|oak|lou|apiid|athenituni|ueipnosoph|ten
antholog|you|cap|g|bred|lime|to|catch|her
thirty-eight|polyolbiox
singer|upon|this|bnddian|custom|some|have|ground
that|unto|this|day|use|in|franc|where|the|younger
countryfellow|about|new|year|s|tide|in|everi|villag|give
the|wish|of|good|fortun|at|the|inhabit|door|with
this|acclam|au|guy|van|ncvf|which|as|i|rememb
in|rahlam|is|read|all|one|word|for|the|same|purjos
whether|this|had|ani|communiti|with|the|institut|of
that|templ|livrolag|rvrni|in|antmm|or|that|ovid
allud|to|it|in|that|vers|common|cite|out|of|him
at|some|read|ad|viscum|druidc|viscum|clamar|soleh|x
i|can|not|assur|you|yet|it|is|enough|like|but|i|see|a
custom|in|some|part|among|us|in|our|languag|nor|is|the
digress|too|faulti|the|same|in|effect|i|mean|the|year
baashntl|in|the|countri|on|the|vigil|of|the|newyear
which|had|it|begin|as|some|say|from|that|of|ronix
daughter|to|hemjlst|her|drink|to|vortigem|by|these
word|spoueru|fe|bjnshril|he|answer|her|by|direc
tion|of|an|interpret|j9rincheil|l|and|then
flustc|hivt|antj|sittc|iit|ve|ntjounc|akt|glati|tjionuc|hive|hril
hntj|that|bias|tho|in|this|lanu|the|brrst|hiashail
2ls|in|langagc|o|ajcoiinc|that|inc|might|tunc|iujitc
enlj|so|bjcl|he|ailh|the|fole|about|that|he|is|not|iiut
boii|iit
afterward|it|appear|that|twenty-two|lashailc|and|snutheil|were
the|usual|phrase|of|quaf|among|the|eiujlisji|as|we|see
lo|goropius|gallic|five|et|alii|to|the|mistl|this|new|year
riutarch|problem|lumi|o5|ccelius|khodigin|aiitiq|lect|eighteen
cap|fourteen
t|as|if|you|should|say|of|mint|led|fortun
x|to|ike|mihiic|till|jjnti|s|use|to|cri
galfr|monuiuuth|one|three|cap|one|lord|khif|a|health
ii|drink|the|h|auh|jlob|glocestren
the|nixtii|song|thirty-nine
in|thoma|dc|la|mow|and|befor|lira|the|old|ilavillan
thus
ecc|vagant|cifo|distento|guthir|imasshctl
ingemin|iuassihcil
but|i|rather|conjectur|it|a|usual|ceremoni|among|the
saxon|befor|ilengist|as|a|note|of|healthwish|and|so
perhap|you|might|make|it|batshhctl|avhich|was|express
among|other|nation|in|that|form|of|drink|to|the|health
of|their|mistress|and|friend
benh|vos|henh|nos|henh|te|benk|me|bent|nostram|eiiam
stephanium
in|plautus|and|infinit|other|testimoni|of|that|natur|in
him|martial|ovid|horac|and|such|more|agre|near
with|the|fashion|now|use|we|call|it|a|health|as|they
did|also|in|direct|term|t|which|with|an|idol|call|hell
ancient|worshipj|ed|at|cern|in|dorsetshir|by|the|english
saxon|in|name|express|both|the|ceremoni|of|drink
and|the|newyear|s|acclam|whereto|in|some|part|of
this|kingdom|is|join|also|solemn|of|drink|out|of|a
cup|ritual|compos|deck|and|fill|with|coimtri
liquor|just|as|much|and|as|the|same|avhich|that|allheal
deiti|or|allhelp|medicin|did|among|the|druid|you
may|to|all|this|add|that|as|an|earnest|of|good|luck|to|fol
low|the|new|year|begin|it|was|usuap|among|the|ro
man|as|with|lis|and|i|think|in|all|europ|at|this|day|is
to|greet|each|other|with|auspici|gift|but|hereof|you
say|i|unfit|expati|i|omit|therefor|their|sacrif|of
one|vita|eihmrdl|ii|two|j|arcliitren|lib|two
sub|iiitellig|i|t0ai|aut|quid|simil|in|sticho
prophio|tibl|saluteiii|plcnis|fauclbii|plautus|eudem|comcedia
camdeiius|the|wasuhailbol
ovid|fastor|one|fest|in|strena
forty|folyolbion
human|bodi|and|such|hke|and|come|to|the|place|of
their|assembl|this|vas|about|chartr|in|gaul|as|ccesar
tell|us|fmil|menda|for|affin|of|name|imagin|it|to
be|dreux|some|eight|mile|on|this|side|chartr|and|per
adventur|the|galatian|public|council|call|drymenehtw
had|henc|origin|the|british|druid|took|this|isl|of
anglesey|then|wellstor|with|thick|wood|and|religi
grove|insomuch|that|it|was|call|three|iti3oh3tl|for|their
chief|resid|as|in|the|roman|stori|of|fauunus|and
agricola|s|adventur|on|it|is|deliv|for|their|sub
vefis|under|augustus|and|tiberius|they|were|prohi
bite|eom|and|claudius|endeavour|it|in|gaful|yet|in
the|succeed|emperor|time|there|were|of|them|left|as
appear|in|lamjridia|and|vopiscus|mention|them|in|their
live|and|long|sinc|that|frocopius|write|under|jus
tinian|abov|five|hundr|year|after|christ|affirm|that
then|the|gaul|use|sacrific|of|human|flesh|which|was|a
part|of|druidian|doctrin|if|i|should|upon|testimoni|of
i|know|not|what|veremund|camphel|and|the|irish|cornil
tell|you|that|some|hundr|and|sixti|year|befor|christ
finnan|king|of|scotland|first|gave|them|the|isl|or|that
king|crathlint|in|diocletian|s|persecut|turn|their|reli
gion|into|christian|and|made|amphilmlus|first|bishop|of
sodor|i|sliould|fabul|abus|time|as|they|have|igno
rant|mistook|that|isl|of|man|for|this|or|to|speak|of
the|suppos|their|druttrncuss|ie|a|pentagon|figur
ingraveu|with|xrieia|or|tyiia|it|is|the|same|in|fashion
istrab|geograph|xii
the|dark|hh|brit
tacit|annal|fourteen|et|vit|agricolr
sueton|lib|five|cap|twenty-four|et|ilin|hist|nat|thirty|cap|one
senec|in|apocoloc|et|suetou|ubi|supn|i
five|lie|bell|oothic|three
hector|boetscotor|hist|two|et|six
the|ninth|song|forty-one
with|the|victori|seal|of|antiochus|soter|be|admo
nish|by|alexand|in|a|dream|to|take|it|which|in|gar
mani|they|reckon|for|a|preserv|against|hobgoblin
were|but|to|be|indulg|to|old|wive|tradit|onli
thus|much|for|a|corollari|i|will|note|to|you|conrad|celtesp
observ|to|be|in|an|abbey|at|the|foot|of|vkhtelherg|hill
near|voitland|six|statu|of|stone|set|in|the|churchwal
some|seven|foot|everi|one|tall|bare|head|and|foot|cloak
and|hood|with|a|bag|a|book|a|staff|a|beard|hang|to
his|middl|and|sjread|a|mustachio|an|auster|look|and
eye|fix|on|the|earth|which|he|conjectur|to|be|imag
of|them|upon|mistak|of|straho|and|appli|what|he
saith|in|general|and|bracelet|and|gold|chain|of|the|gaid
to|the|druhh|i|onc|thought|that|conrad|had|been|de
ceiv|but|i|can|now|upon|better|advic|inclin|to|his
judgment
four hundred and forty-five|which|loith|my|princ|court|sometim|plea|d|to|grace
for|as|in|soutlvlfcd|caermardhin|and|afterward|dine
rowr|in|powi|shreivsburi|and|then|mathrav|so|in|north
jfale|was|aberfraw|in|anglesey|chief|place|of|the|princ
resid
lest|l|y|reason|of|the|composit|in|print|some|page
should|have|been|idl|and|becaus|also|here|is|so|much|of
the|jfelsh|stori|i|insert|this|chronolog|of|the|king
and|princ|of|jfale|from|arthur|until|the|end|of|the
british|blood|in|them
lucian|vttip|tov|iv|ry|trpoirayonevan|irtrntficitog|alii|et|habe
tur|apud|agripjjam|in|i|de|occulta|riiilosoph|cap|si|atiu|ox
antiochi|mimini|apud|i|lleuchliuuui|in|three|de|art|cabalistica
tract|de|heicynia|sylvd
pris|in|descript|wall
forty-two
polyolbion
of|christ
five hundred and sixteen
five hundred and forty-two
five hundred and forty-five
five hundred and seventy-eight
five hundred and eighty-one
five hundred and eighty-six
about|six hundred
about|six hundred and thirty
six hundred and seventy-six
six hundred and eighty-eight
arthur|succeed|his|mlier|uther|pendragon
of|his|death|see|to|the|third|soug
comtnnthi|son|to|cculor|duke|of|cormcal
understand|governor|or|loi|d|lieuten|for
neither|in|those|time|nor|long|after|was|ani
such|titl|particular|honorari|he|lie|buri
at|stoneheng
anrelius|conan
vortipor
mahjo
cather|in|his|time|the|briton|had|much
advers|fortun|in|var|with|the|saxon|and
then|most|of|all|made|that|secess|into|wale
and|cornwal|yet|in|name|retain|hereof|re
membranc
cadican
cadwalin|or|cadwallo|the|briton|as|in|token
of|his|power|resist|and|dominion|against
the|saxon|put|him|be|dead|into|a|brazen
hors|and|set|it|on|the|top|of|the|west|gate|of
london|it|seem|he|mean|lndgate
cadwallad|son|to|cadwallo|of|him|and|his
name|see|befor|nor|think|i|the|british|and
english|chronicl|concern|liim|reconcil
abl|in|him|the|chief|monarchi|and|glori|of
the|british|fail
irar|song|to|yllaii|iiiig|of|yl|niioric|britain
this|ivor|they|make|but|i|examin|it|not|now
one|i|will|not|justifi|tlic|time|of|this|arthur|nor|the|rest|befor
cadumliadtr|so|disconliiig|aru|our|liroiioloycr|nor|had|one|time|to
examin|nor|think|tliat|ani|man|liath|siillifi|mean|to|rectifi
them
ihi|report|is|as|the|brllkh|stori|tell|hard|justifi|if
exauiiuej
the|ninth|song|forty-three
of|christ
ine|king|of|westsaxon|in|our|monk|that|is
he|which|began|the|peterp|to|born
seven hundred and twenty|roder|molwinoc|son|of|edic|shirch
seven hundred and fifty-five|conan|tmlaethwi|son|of|eoder
near|eight hundred and twenty|mervin|urich|in|right|of|his|wife|esylht
dauirhter|and|heir|to|roder
eight hundred and forty-three|roder|mawr|son|to|mervvn|and|esyhlt
among|his|son|was|the|tripartit|divis|of
walt|as|to|the|seventh|song|into|fowis
noiih|and|southwal
eight hundred and seventy-seven|anaraiod|son|to|roder
nine hundred and thirteen|edward|voel|son|oi|ajiarawd
nine hundred and forty|howel|dim|cousingerman|to|edic|haang
befor|the|principahti|oi|southlvalc|and|fowi
this|is|he|whose|law|are|so|famous|and|in
quir|of|in|rot|claus|wall|nine|ed|one|in|the
tower
nine hundred and forty-eight|leraf|and|lago|son|of|edwal|voel
nine hundred and eighty-two|iloivel|a|levaf
nine hundred and eighty-four|cadicalhoii|a|w
nine hundred and eighty-six|meredith|ap|ot6|e|i
nine hundred and ninety-two|fi|ffaz|a|meiric
one thousand and three|jedan|a|i|blegor
one thousand and fifteen|llieivelin|aji|sitsijlht
one thousand and twenty-one|ai|edic|ap|majric
one thousand and thirty-seven|gnijl|ith|ajp|lhciceliii
one thousand and sixty-one|hkthiii|and|rhywcdlon|a|i|convin
one thousand and seventy-three|trahaern|a|caradoc
one thousand and seventy-eight|grujjijth|aji|conan|he|reform|tlie|fcsi
poet|and|minstrel|and|brought|over|other
out|of|ireland|to|instruct|the|welsh|as|to|the
fourt|song
the|seven|oo
forty-four|polyolbion
of|christ
one thousand, one hundred and thirty-seven|oicen|givineth|n|gruffijth|a|conan
one thousand, one hundred and sixty-nine|david|a|oicen|gwmeth|in|his|time|3iadoc
his|brother|discov|part|of|the|west|indi
one thousand, one hundred and ninety-four|ljwcelin|ap|lonverth|a|ouen|givineth
one thousand, two hundred and forty|david|a|i|lheiveun|a|i|lorwerth
one thousand, two hundred and forty-six|lheicelin|a|gruff|ijth|a|lhetvelin|a|loriccrih
the|last|princ|of|jrat|of|the|british|blood
one thousand, two hundred and eighty-two|edward|i|conquer|ttrtes|and|got|the|prin
cipal|lheicelin|then|slain|and|sinc|that
henri|iii|befor|gave|it|also|to|his|son|princ
edward|it|hath|been|in|the|eldest|son|and
heirsappar|of|the|english|crown
but|note|that|after|the|divis|among|roder|matvr|s
sous|the|princip|was|chiefli|in|northwal|and|the
rest|as|tributari|to|the|princ|of|that|part|and|for|him|as
suprem|king|of|wale|are|all|these|deduct|of|time|and
person|until|this|last|lheicelin
the|tenth|song
the|argument
tlie|serious|muse|herself|appli
to|merlin|s|ancietit|propheci
at|dina|emri|ivher|he|shoid|d
how|fate|the|britan|rule|bestoiv|d
to|conway|next|she|turn|her|tale
and|sing|her|cluyd|s|renownm|vale
then|of|saint|winifrid|doth|tell
and|all|the|wonder|of|her|well
make|dee|bruit|s|histori|pursu
at|which|she|bid|her|wale|adieu
in
l|while|thus|take|breath|our|way|yet|fair|in|view
the|muse|her|former|cours|doth|serious|pursu
from|penmen|craggi|height|to|tri|her|saili|wing
herself|long|haa|bat|d|in|the|delici|spring
that|trembl|from|his|top|through|longworn|cranni
creep|five
to|spend|their|liquid|store|on|the|insati|deep
she|meet|with|comcay|first|which|liet|next|at|hand
whose|precious|orient|pearl|that|breedeth|in|her|sand
abov|the|other|flood|of|britain|doth|her|grace
into|the|irish|sea|which|make|out|her|race|lo
pemnenmaur
pearl|in|the|river|coiunaij
forty-six|polyolbion
suppli|d|by|mani|a|mere|through|mani|sever|rill
into|her|bosom|pour|d|her|plenteous|she|fill
good|river|near|unto|thi|sacr|spring
prophet|merlin|sate|when|to|the|british|king
the|chang|long|to|come|auspici|he|told|lo
most|happi|were|thi|nymph|that|wondr|did|behold
his|graver|wrinkl|brow|amaz|and|did|hear
the|dread|word|he|spake|that|so|ambigu|were
thrice|happi|brook|i|say|that|everi|way|about
tliy|tributari|be|as|is|that|town|whereout|twenty
into|the|sea|thou|fallst|which|coiiwai|of|thi|name
perpetu|is|call|d|to|regist|thi|fame
for|thou|clear|conicmj|heardst|wise|merlin|first|relat
the|destini|decre|of|britain|s|futur|fate
which|truli|he|foretold|proud|vortig|should|lose|twenty-five
as|when|him|from|his|seat|the|saxon|should|depos
the|forc|that|should|here|from|armor|arriv
yet|far|too|weak|from|henc|the|enemi|to|drive
and|to|that|mighti|king|which|rash|undertook
a|strong|wall|d|tower|to|rear|those|earth|spirit|that|shook
the|great|foundat|still|in|dragon|horrid|shape|thirty-one
that|dream|wizard|told|make|the|mountain|gape
with|his|most|power|charm|to|view|those|cavern|deep
and|from|the|top|of|brilh|so|high|and|wondrous|steep
where|dina|emri|stood|show|d|where|the|serpent|fought
the|white|that|tore|the|lie|from|whenc|the|prophet
wrought|eighty-six
the|britan|sad|decay|then|short|to|ensu
happi|ye|that|heard|the|man|who|all|thing|knew
until|the|general|doom|through|all|the|world|admir|d
by|whose|prophet|saw|ye|all|becam|inspir|d|forty
as|well|the|fork|neay|that|nearst|her|fountain|spring
littl|britain|in|franc|part|of|the|snowdon
the|tenth|song|forty-seven
with|her|belov|maid|melandidar|that|bring
her|flow|where|conway|forth|into|the|sea|doth|slide
that|to|their|jniistress|make|to|the|denughian|side
as|those|that|from|the|hill|of|proud|caniarran|fall|four
this|scarc|the|muse|had|said|but|clinjd|doth|quick|call
her|great|recours|to|come|and|guard|her|while|she|glide
along|the|good|vale|which|with|her|wealthi|pride
iuch|beautifi|her|bank|so|natur|her|own
that|diffren|chujd|by|her|both|far|and|near|is|known|zero
with|high|embattl|hill|that|each|way|is|enclo|d
but|onli|on|the|north|and|to|the|north|dispo|d
fierc|borea|find|access|to|court|the|dainti|vale
who|whispr|in|her|ear|with|mani|a|wanton|tale
allur|her|to|his|love|his|leman|her|to|make|fifty-five
as|one|that|in|himself|much|suff|reth|for|her|sake
the|orcad|and|all|those|eubid|imbrac|d
in|neptun|s|age|arm|to|nejjtiin|seem|chast
yet|prostitut|themselv|to|borea|who|neglect
the|calidonian|down|nor|ought|at|all|respect|sixty
the|other|inland|dale|abroad|that|scattr|lie
some|on|the|english|earth|and|some|in|ajhang
bat|court|d|jren|clmd|her|beauti|doth|prefer
such|dallianc|as|alon|the|north|wind|hath|with|her
orithya|not|enjoy|d|from|thrace|when|he|her|took|en
and|in|his|saili|plume|the|trembl|virgin|shook
but|through|the|extrem|love|he|to|this|vale|doth|bear
grow|jealous|at|the|length|and|mightili|doth|fear
great|neptun|whom|he|see|to|smug|his|horrid|face
and|fear|lest|the|god|should|so|obtain|her|grace|vo
from|the|septentrion|cold|in|the|breem|freez|air
where|the|bleak|northwind|keep|still|domin|there
the|situat|of|dijffren|chajd
isl|in|the|northeast|aiul|west|of|scotland
in|the|sixth|book|of|ovid|s|letaiuorph
forty-eight|polyolbion
from|shetland|straddl|wide|his|foot|on|thnli|set
whenc|storm|all|the|vast|dcucalldon|he|threat
and|bear|his|boistrous|wave|into|the|narrow|mouth|rs
of|the|vergivian|sea|where|meet|from|the|south
great|kephin|s|surlier|tide|with|their|robusti|shock
each|other|shoulder|up|against|the|griesli|rock
as|strong|men|when|they|meet|contend|for|the|path
but|come|near|the|coast|where|cluyd|her|dwell|hath|so
the|north|wind|calm|becom|forget|his|ire|to|wreak
and|the|delici|vale|thus|mild|doth|bespeak
dear|clujd|ti|abound|sweet|that|from|thi|bosom|flow
when|with|my|activ|wing|into|the|air|i|throw
those|hill|whose|hoari|head|seem|in|the|cloud|to|dwell
of|age|becom|young|enamour|d|with|the|smell|stj
of|th|odorifer|flower|in|thi|most|precious|lap
within|whose|velvet|leav|when|i|myself|enwrap
they|suffoc|with|scent|that|from|my|nativ|kind
i|seem|some|slow|perfum|and|not|the|swiftest|wind|so
with|joy|my|dijljren|clwjd|i|see|thee|brave|spread
survey|everi|part|from|foot|up|to|thi|head
thi|full|and|youth|breast|which|in|their|meadowi|pride
are|branch|d|with|riveri|vein|meanderlik|that|glide
i|further|note|in|thee|more|excel|than|these|os
were|there|a|thing|that|more|the|amor|eye|might|i|leas
thyplumpand|swell|womb|avhos|mellowi|glebe|doth|bear
the|yellow|ripen|sheaf|that|bendeth|with|the|ear
whilst|in|this|sort|his|suit|he|amor|preferr|d
moylunnil|near|at|hand|the|northwind|overheard|loo
and|vex|at|the|heart|that|he|a|jmountain|great
which|long|time|in|his|breast|had|felt|love|s|kind|heat
as|one|whom|crystal|cluijd|hatl|with|her|beauti|caught
is|for|that|liiver|s|sake|near|of|his|wit|distraught
one|the|tide|out|of|the|north|and|south|sea|meetiug|in|s
geonjii|channel
tee|tenth|song|forty-nine
with|in|rage|to|liear|that|valley|so|extol|d|los
and|yet|that|brook|whose|cours|so|batful|make|her|moull
and|one|that|lend|that|vale|her|most|renown|name
should|of|her|meaner|far|be|overgon|in|fame
wherefor|moiievennil|will|d|his|cluid|herself|to|show
vho|from|her|nativ|fount|as|proud|she|doth|flow|lu
her|handmaid|maniaii|hath|aad|hespin|her|to|bring
to|ruthin|whose|fair|seat|first|kind|visit
to|lead|her|thenc|in|state|leivenni|lend|her|sourc
that|when|moylevennil|see|his|river|s|great|recours
from|his|intrench|toj|is|plea|d|with|her|suppli|you
claweddock|cometh|in|and|istrad|likewis|hie
unto|the|queenlik|cluijd|as|she|to|denbigh|draw
and|on|the|other|side|from|whenc|the|iorn|daw
down|from|the|flintian|hill|come|ifjiel|her|to|bear
to|sacr|asaph|s|see|his|hallo|w|d|templ|where|one hundred and twenty
fair|elioy|halv|won|her|sister|ale|s|power
they|entertain|their|chiyd|near|mighti|neptun|s|bower
who|likewis|is|sustain|d|by|senion|last|that|fall
and|from|the|virgin|s|well|doth|wash|old|buthland|s|wall
moylevennil|with|her|sight|that|never|is|suffic|d|vzh
now|with|excess|joy|so|strong|is|surpri|d
that|thus|he|proud|spake|on|the|gwynefhiun|ground
and|look|from|east|to|west|what|countri|is|there|crownm
as|thou|tegenia|art|one|that|with|a|vale|so|rich
cut|thorough|with|the|cluyd|whose|grace|me|bewitch|one|w
the|fruitfuust|of|all|wale|so|long|hast|honour|d|been
as|also|by|thi|spring|such|wonder|who|dost|win
that|natur|remot|six|british|mile|from|sea
and|rise|on|the|firm|yet|in|the|natur|day
twice|fall|twice|doth|fill|in|most|admir|wise|one hundred and sixteen
when|cynthia|from|the|east|unto|the|south|doth|rise
riveret|runni7ig|into|cjujid|out|of|denhhh|and|flintshir
part|of|the|ale|call|tajengk|ie|fair|england
vol|ii|four
oo|polyolbion
that|migliti|neptun|flow|then|strang|ebb|thi|well
and|avhen|again|he|sink|as|strang|she|doth|swell
yet|to|the|sacr|fount|of|jfinifrid|give|place
of|all|the|cambrian|spring|of|such|especi|grace|ito
that|oft|the|dccian|nymph|as|also|those|that|keep
amongst|the|coralgrov|in|the|vergivlan|deep
have|left|their|watri|bower|their|secret|safe|retir
to|see|her|whom|report|so|great|should|admir
whose|water|to|this|day|as|perfect|are|and|clear|one hundred and forty-five
as|her|delight|eye|in|their|full|beauti|were
a|virgin|while|she|liv|d|chast|jfinifrid|avho|chose
befor|her|maidengem|she|forcibl|would|lose
to|have|her|harmless|life|by|the|lewd|rapter|spilt
for|which|still|more|and|more|to|aggrav|his|guilt|ijo
the|liveless|tear|she|she|would|into|a|fountain|turn
and|that|for|her|alon|the|water|should|not|mourn
the|pure|vermilion|blood|that|issu|d|from|her|vein
unto|this|veri|day|the|pear|gravel|stain
as|erst|the|white|and|red|were|mix|d|in|her|cheek|irw
and|that|one|part|of|her|might|be|the|other|like
her|hair|was|turn|d|to|moss|whose|sweet|doth|declar
in|liveli|of|youth|the|natur|sweet|she|bare
and|of|her|holi|life|the|innoc|to|show
avhatev|live|thing|into|this|well|jou|throw|one hundred
she|strong|bear|it|up|not|suff|ring|it|to|sink
besid|the|wholesom|use|in|bath|or|in|drink
doth|the|diseas|cure|as|thereto|she|did|leav
her|virtu|with|her|name|that|time|should|not|bereav
scarc|of|this|tedious|tale|moylercunil|made|an|end|icj
but|that|the|higher|yalc|whose|be|doth|ascend
into|the|pleasant|east|his|loftier|head|advanc|d
this|region|as|a|man|that|long|had|been|intranc|d
a|fountain|el|bing|and|flow|contrari|to|the|cours|of|the|ea
one|decemb|a|jjlace|luouuiaiuous|and|somewhat|inaccess
tee|tenth|song|fifty-one
whilst|thus|himself|to|pleas|the|mighti|mountain|tell
such|far|of|his|cluycl|and|of|his|wondrous|well|iro
stood|think|what|to|do|lest|fair|tegenia|plac|d
so|admir|well|might|hold|herself|disgrac|d
by|his|so|barren|site|be|mountain|and|cold
to|noth|more|unlik|than|dijfren|s|batful|mould
and|in|respect|of|her|to|be|account|rude|irn
yale|for|he|would|not|be|confound|quit|by|cluyd
and|for|his|common|want|to|coin|some|poor|excus
unto|his|proper|prais|discreet|doth|produc
a|valley|for|a|vale|of|her|peculiar|kind
in|good|breadth|and|length|though|dyffren|far|behind
on|this|yet|dare|he|stand|that|for|the|natur|frame|isi
that|figur|of|the|cross|of|which|it|take|the|name
is|equal|avith|the|best|which|els|excel|it|far
and|by|the|power|of|that|most|sacr|charact
respect|beyond|the|rest|unto|herself|doth|win|ur
when|now|the|sterner|dee|doth|instant|begin
his|ampler|self|to|show|that|down|the|verdant|dale
strain|in|his|nobler|cours|along|the|rougher|yale
t|invit|his|favour|brook|where|from|that|spacious|lin
through|which|he|come|unmix|d|first|yihcin|falleth|in|i|jo
and|go|on|along|still|gather|up|his|forc
get|gerroio|to|his|aid|to|hasten|on|his|cours
with|christionefh|next|come|keriog|in|apac
out|of|the|leaden|mine|then|with|her|sulli|face
claiceddock|cast|about|where|gwenroiv|she|may|greet|one hundred and ninety-five
till|like|two|love|friend|they|under|wrcxam|meet
then|alen|make|approach|to|dee|most|in|dear
take|tegicldog|in|who|earnest|to|be|there
for|hast|twice|under|earth|her|crystal|head|doth|run
when|instant|again|dee|s|holi|begun|two hundred
strang|thing
the|river|in|the|east|of|denbigh|fall|into|dee
forty-two
fifty-two|folyolbiox
by|his|contract|front|and|sterner|wave|to|sliow
that|lie|had|thing|to|speak|might|profit|them|to|know
a|brook|that|was|suppo|d|much|busi|to|have|seen
avhich|had|an|ancient|bound|twixt|ljdes|and|england|been
and|note|was|by|both|to|be|an|omin|flood|two hundred and five
that|chang|of|his|ford|the|futur|i|will|or|good
of|either|countri|told|of|cither|s|war|or|peac
the|sick|or|the|health|the|dearth|or|the|increas
and|tliat|of|all|the|flood|of|britain|he|might|boast
his|stream|in|former|time|to|have|been|honor|d|most|two hundred and ten
when|as|at|chester|onc|king|edgar|held|his|court
to|whom|eight|lesser|king|with|homag|did|resort
that|mighti|mercian|lord|him|in|his|barg|bestow|d
and|was|by|all|those|king|about|the|river|row|d
for|whic|tlie|hallow|d|dee|so|much|upon|him|took|two hundred and fifteen
and|now|the|time|was|come|that|this|imperi|brook
tlie|longtraduc|brute|determin|d|to|awak
and|in|the|britan|right|thus|bold|to|them|spake
ye|the|ancient|race|of|famous|brute|that|be
and|thou|the|queen|of|isl|great|britain|whi|do|ye|two hundred and twenty
your|grandsir|s|godlik|name|with|a|neglect|ear
in|so|reproach|term|and|ignomini|hear
by|everi|one|of|late|contemptu|disgrac|d
that|he|whom|time|so|long|and|strong|hath|imbrac|d
should|be|reject|quit|the|reason|urg6d|whi|two hundred and twenty-five
is|by|the|general|foe|thus|answer|d|byandbi
tliat|brutus|as|you|say|by|sea|who|hither|came
from|whom|you|would|suppos|tlii|isl|first|took|the|name
mere|fictiti|is|nor|could|the|liornan|hear
most|studious|of|the|truth|and|nearst|those|time|that
were|two hundred and thirty
of|ani|such|as|he|nay|they|who|most|do|strive
from|that|great|stock|of|troy|their|linag|to|deriv
see|to|the|eiht|song
the|tenth|song|fifty-three
in|all|the|larg|descent|of|lulus|never|found
that|bnite|on|whom|we|might|our|first|begin|ground
to|this|assert|thus|i|faith|repli|two hundred and thirty-five
and|as|a|friend|to|truth|do|constant|deni
antiqu|to|them|as|nearer|to|those|time
their|write|to|pieced|our|ancient|british|rhyme
but|that|our|nobl|bard|which|so|divin|sung
that|remnant|of|old|troy|of|which|the|britan|sprung|two hundred and forty
befor|those|roman|were|thirty-eight|proof|we|can|produc
and|learn|long|with|us|ere|t|was|with|them|in|use
and|they|but|idl|talk|upbraid|us|with|lie
that|geffray|monmouth|first|our|brutus|did|devis
not|heard|of|till|his|time|our|adversari|say|two hundred and forty-five
when|pregnant|we|prove|ere|that|historian|s|day
a|thousand|lingr|year|our|prophet|clear|song
the|britainfound|brute|most|frequent|them|among
from|talicsscn|wise|approv|so|with|us
that|what|he|spake|was|held|to|be|oracul|two hundred and fifty
so|true|his|write|were|and|such|immort|men
as|this|nowwan|world|shall|hard|hear|again
in|our|own|genuin|tongu|that|nativ|were|of|jvale
our|geffraij|had|his|brute|nor|were|these|idl|tale
as|he|may|find|the|truth|of|our|descent|that|seek|eoo
nor|fabul|like|those|devis|by|the|greek
but|from|the|first|of|time|by|judg|still|were|heard
discreet|everi|year|correct|where|they|err|d
and|that|whereon|our|foe|his|greatest|hold|doth|take
against|the|handl|becaus|and|most|doth|seem|to|make|2co
is|that|we|show|no|book|our|brutus|to|approv
but|that|our|idl|bard|as|their|fond|rage|did|move
sang|what|their|fanci|ploa|d|thus|do|i|answer|these
that|th|ancient|british|priest|the|fearless|druid
tliat|ministr|the|law|and|were|so|truli|wise|two hundred and five
at|the|isttlhva|see|to|the|fourth|soug
fifty-four|polyolbion
that|they|determin|d|state|attend|sacrific
to|letter|never|would|their|mysteri|commit
for|which|the|breast|of|men|they|deem|d|to|be|more|fit
yhich|questionless|should|seem|from|judgment|to|proceed
for|when|of|age|past|ave|look|in|book|to|read|sro
we|retchless|discharg|our|memori|of|those
so|when|injuri|time|such|monument|doth|lose
as|what|so|great|a|work|by|time|that|is|not|wrack|d
ave|utter|forego|that|memor|act
but|when|we|lay|it|up|within|the|mind|of|men|two hundred and seventy-five
they|leav|it|their|next|age|that|leav|it|her|again
so|strong|which|methink|doth|for|tradit|make
as|if|you|from|the|world|it|altogeth|take
you|utter|subvert|antiqu|therebi
for|though|time|well|may|prove|that|often|she|doth|lie|28o
poster|by|her|yet|mani|thing|hath|known
that|ere|men|learn|d|to|write|could|no|way|have|been|shown
for|if|the|sjirit|of|god|did|not|our|faith|assur
the|scriptur|be|from|heav|n|like|heav|n|divin|pure
of|mose|mighti|work|i|rever|may|say|two hundred and eighty-five
i|speak|with|god|fear|tradit|put|away
in|pow|r|of|human|wit|it|easli|doth|not|lie
to|prove|befor|the|flood|the|genealog
nor|anyth|there|is|that|kindlier|doth|agre
with|our|descent|from|troij|if|thing|compar|d|may|be|two hundred and ninety
than|peopl|of|this|place|near|to|those|age|when
exih|d|by|the|greek|those|poor|worldwandr|men
of|all|hope|to|return|into|their|countri|reft
sought|shore|whereon|to|set|that|littl|them|was|left
from|some|such|godlik|race|we|questionless|did|spring|2y5
who|soon|becam|so|great|here|onc|inhabit
so|barbar|nor|were|we|as|mani|have|us|made
and|ccesar|s|envious|pen|would|all|the|world|persuad
the|druid|would|not|commit|their|mysteri|to|mrite
tee|tenth|song|fifty-five
his|own|ambiti|end|in|seek|to|advanc
when|with|his|roman|power|arriv|here|from|franc|c9
if|he|the|britan|found|experienc|d|so|in|war
that|they|with|such|great|skill|could|wield|their|arm6d|car
and|as|he|still|came|on|his|skil|march|to|let
cut|down|their|age|oak|and|in|the|river|set
the|sharp|steelpoint|stake|as|he|the|ford|should|pass
i|fain|would|understand|how|this|that|nation|was|3oa
so|ignor|he|would|make|and|yet|so|know|war
but|in|thing|past|so|long|for|all|the|world|we|are
like|to|a|man|embark|d|and|travel|the|deep
who|sail|by|some|hill|or|promontori|steep|sio
which|jut|into|the|sea|with|an|amaz|eye
behold|the|cleev|thrust|up|into|the|lofti|sky
and|th|more|that|he|doth|look|the|more|it|draw|his|sight
now|at|the|craggi|front|then|at|the|wondrous|weight
but|from|the|pass|shore|still|as|the|swell|sail|three hundred and fifteen
thrust|forward|by|the|wind|the|float|barqu|doth|hail
the|mighti|giantheap|so|less|and|lesser|still
appeareth|to|the|eye|until|the|monstrous|hill
at|length|show|like|a|cloud|and|further|be|cast
is|out|of|ken|quit|so|of|the|age|past|three hundred and twenty
those|thing|that|in|their|age|much|to|be|wondr|were
still|as|wingfoot|time|them|farther|off|doth|bear
do|lessen|everi|hour|avhen|now|the|mighti|preas
impati|of|his|speech|in|treat|the|flood|to|ceas
and|cri|with|one|consent|the|saam|state|to|show|3j5
as|angri|with|the|muse|such|labour|to|bestow
on|wale|but|england|still|neglect|thus|to|be
and|have|pass|d|the|time|the|honor|dee
at|cjiester|was|arriv|d|and|bail|them|all|adieu
when|our|intend|cours|with|england|we|pursu|o|ii
illust
eturnixa|into|the|land|the|muse|lead|you
about|denhhjh|and|flint|most|xorthern|and
maritim|shire|of|jfale|which|conclud|these
seven|last|book|dedic|to|the|glori|of|that
third|part|of|great|britain
fourteen|prophet|merlin|safe|ivhen|to|the|british|king
in|the|first|declin|state|of|the|british|empir|to|ex
lain|the|author|in|this|of|merlin|voiiigern|by|advic|of
his|magician|after|diver|unfortun|success|in|war|re
solv|to|erect|a|strong|fort|in|snowclon|hill|not|far|from
conicey|s|head|in|the|edg|of|merioneth|which|might|be|as
his|last|and|surest|refug|against|the|increas|power|of
the|english|mason|were|appoint|and|the|work|begun
but|what|they|built|in|the|day|was|alway|swallow|up|in
the|earth|next|night|the|king|ask|counsel|of|his|magi
cian|touch|this|prodigi|they|advis|that|he|must|find
out|a|child|which|had|no|father|and|with|his|l|lood|sprinkl
the|stone|and|mortar|and|that|then|the|castl|would|stand
as|on|a|firm|foundat|search|was|made|and|in|caer
merdhin|as|you|have|it|to|the|fifth|song|was|merlin|am
brose|found|he|be|hither|brought|to|the|king|slight
the|tenth|song|fifty-seven
that|pretend|skill|of|those|magician|as|palliat|igno
ranc|and|with|confid|of|a|more|know|spirit|un
dertak|to|show|the|true|becaus|of|that|amaz|ruin|of|the
stonework|tell|them|that|in|the|earth|was|a|great|water
which|could|endur|continu|of|no|heavi|superstruct
the|workmen|dia|two|ed|to|discov|the|truth|and|found|it|so
he|then|beseech|the|king|to|becaus|them|make|further|in
quisit|and|afbrm|that|in|the|bottom|of|it|were|two
sleep|dragon|which|prove|so|likewis|the|one|icliit
the|other|red|the|tvhite|he|interpret|for|the|saxon|the
red|for|the|briton|and|upon|this|event|here|in|dlnas
emrij|as|they|call|it|began|he|those|propheci|to|vorti
gern|which|are|common|in|the|british|stori|henc|que
tionless|was|that|fiction|of|the|muse|best|pupil|the|nobl
spenser|in|suppos|merlin|usual|to|visit|his|old|tiinon
whose|dwell|he|place
low|in|a|valley|green
under|the|foot|of|rauran|mossi|hore
from|whenc|the|river|dee|as|silver|cleen
his|tumhl|billow|rol|ivith|gentl|rore
for|this|fumranvaur|hill|is|there|by|in|merioneth|but
observ|withal|the|differ|of|the|merlin|ambros|and
sijlvest|which|is|befor|to|the|fourth|song|and|permit
it|onli|as|poetic|that|he|make|king|arthir|and|this
merlin|of|one|time|these|propheci|were|by|geffrey|a|i
arthur|at|request|of|alexand|bishop|of|lincoln|under
hen|i|turn|into|latin|and|some|three|hundr|year
sinc|had|interpret|bestow|on|them|by|a|german
doctor|one|alann|de|insuli|who|never|befor|but|twice
shice|that|happi|inaugur|and|mighti|increas|of|do
ambroi|s|barif|itinerar|two|cap|eight
two|facr|q|lib|l|caut|nine|staiiz|four
moiiu|s|propheci
fifty-eight|polyolbion
minion|in|our|present|sovereign|liat|been|imprint|it
is|certain|that|ofttim|they|may|be|direct|and|without
constraint|appli|to|some|event|of|succeed|time|as
that|which|we|have|befor|to|the|fifth|song|of|caerleon
and|this|the|isl|shall|agam|he|name|after|brute|which|is
now|seen|bj|a|public|edict|and|in|some|of|his|majesti|s
present|coin|and|with|more|such|yet|see|learn
men|account|him|but|a|professor|of|unjustifi|magic
and|that|all|propheci|either|fall|true|or|els|are|among
the|affect|of|such|vaniti|perpetu|expect|and|that
of|later|time|the|council|of|tretd|have|by|their|expurga
tori|prohibit|it|i|should|abus|you|if|i|endeavour
to|persuad|your|belief|to|conceit|of|a|true|foreknow
ledg|in|him
eighty-two|and|the|delici|yale|thus|inudlij|doth|bespeak
if|your|conceit|yet|see|not|the|purpos|of|this|fiction
then|thus|take|it|this|vale|of|cluid|for|so|is|the|english
of|snjjhrnu|clbaji|extend|from|the|middl|of|denbigh
shire|to|the|sea|about|eighteen|mile|long|and|some|five
in|breadth|have|those|three|excel|a|fertil|soil
health|air|and|pleasant|seat|for|habit|wash
through|the|middl|with|this|eiver|and|encompass|on
the|east|west|and|8outh|with|high|mountain|freeli
receiv|the|wholesom|blast|of|the|north|wind|much
account|of|among|builder|and|geojion|for|immiss
of|pure|air|come|in|from|that|part|which|lie|open|to
the|sea|whereupon|the|muse|veri|proper|make|the
vale|here|borea|his|belov|and|in|respect|of|his|violenc
against|the|water|supposeth|hiui|jealous|of|xejifnn
whose|ravish|wave|in|that|troubl|irish|sea|and|the
depress|state|of|the|valley|warrant|it|and|for|that|of
great|britain|wier|de|pricstigii|demon|two|cap|ig|alii
the|tenth|song|fifty-nine
molvennit|love|to|the|eiver|wanton|run|by|him|i
know|your|conceit|can|not|but|apprehend|it
one hundred and thirty-three|that|natur|remot|six|british|mile|from|sea
it|is|in|the|parish|of|kilken|in|flintshir|where|it|ebbeth
and|floweth|in|direct|opposit|time|to|the|sea|as|the
author|describ|they|call|it|dpinoii|s|cinu|such|a|one
is|there|about|a|furlon|from|the|severii|sea|bv|neidon|in
glamorganshir|and|anoth|eb|and|flow|but|with
the|common|cours|of|the|moon|ascend|or|set|by
dinevor|in|caermerdhinshir|xor|think|i|ani|reason|more
difficult|to|be|given|than|those|which|are|most|special
hidden|and|most|frequent|strang|in|particular|qualiti
of|flood|well|and|spring|in|which|befor|all|other
xatur|seem|as|if|she|had|for|man|s|wonder|affect|a
not|intellig|varieti|so|differ|so|remot|from|conceit
of|most|pierc|avit|and|such|unlookedfor|oper
both|of|their|first|and|second|qualiti|to|use|the|school
phrase|of|them|are|in|everi|clironograph|naturalist
and|historian
one hundred and thirty-nine|yet|to|the|sacr|fount|of|winifrid|give|place
at|haliicel|a|maritim|villag|near|basingioerlc|in|flint
is|this|winifrid|s|well|whose|sweet|in|the|moss|avhol
some|for|bath|and|other|such|use|qualiti|have|been
refer|to|her|martyrdom|in|this|place|but|d|powcl
upon|girald|in|effect|thus|hen|ii|in|his|first|jrdsh|exp
dition|fortifi|the|castl|of|basingwerk|and|near|by|made
a|cell|for|templar|which|continu|there|until|their|dis
solut|under|edicurd|ii|and|was|after|convert|to|a
hum|lhiiid|descript
powel|ad|girald|itincrar|one|cap|ten
stradl|ap|camd
girald|itiuerar|one|cap|ten
five|ed|eleven
sixty|polyolbiox
nest|of|lubber|monk|whose|superstiti|honour|her
more|than|trut|caus|this|dedic|of|the|fountain
so|much|to|their|profit|in|a|kind|of|merchandis|then|too
shame|in|request|that|they|had|larg|guerdon|it|be
long|to|the|cell|of|those|which|had|there|ani|medicin
besid|increas|rent|which|accru|to|them|jear|out|of
pardon|to|such|as|came|thither|in|solemn|pilgrimag
this|titl|of|exact|they|purchas|of|ff|martin|v
under|henri|the|fifth|and|ad|more|such|gain|pre
tenc|to|themselv|in|time|of|hen|vii|by|like|author
nor|until|the|more|clear|light|of|the|gospel|yet|continu
it|comfort|beam|among|us|dissip|those|fqggi
mist|of|error|and|smokesel|impostur|end|these
collect|revenu|the|author|follow|the|legend|but
observ|time|compar|and|you|shall|find|no|mention|of
this|well|and|the|health|oper|of|it|until|long
after|the|suppos|time|of|s|winifr|s|martyrdom
one hundred and eighty-two|that|figur|of|the|cross|of|which|it|take|the|name
depress|among|mountain|this|valley|express|the
form|of|a|cross|and|so|is|call|the|cross|vale|and|in|british
ilhnn|tocst
two hundred and twelve|to|ichom|eight|lesser|king|with|homag|did|resort
upon|compar|our|stori|i|find|them|to|be|kenneth
of|scotland|malcom|of|camberland|malcuz|king|of|the
isl|whom|malmeshunj|give|onli|the|name|of|archpir
donald|siffreth|howel|larjo|and|inchithil|king|of|j|tale
all|these|he|thus|touch|with|imperi|affect|of
glori|sit|at|the|stern|compel|to|row|him|over|dee
his|great|as|well|in|fame|as|truth|daili|at|this|time|in
creas|caus|multitud|of|alien|to|admir|and|visit
ill|court|as|a|place|honour|abov|all|other|by|this|so
mighti|and|worthi|you|princ|and|throug|that|abund
the|tenth|song|one
confluenc|suc|vicious|cours|follow|by|exampl|that
even|now|was|the|age|when|first|the|more|simpl|and|frugal
natur|of|the|english|grew|infect|with|what|in|some
part|yet|we|languish|for|befor|his|time|the|angl
hither|traduc|be|homin|integri|and|use|natnm
simplicit|sua|defensar|aliena|non|mirari|did|now|learn
from|the|stranger|saxon|an|uncivil|kind|of|fierc|of|the
fleme|effeminaci|of|the|dane|drunken|and|such
other|which|so|increas|that|for|amend|of|the|last
the|king|was|driven|to|constitut|quantiti|in|quaf
bowl|by|littl|pin|of|metal|set|at|certain|distanc|be
yond|which|none|durst|swallow|in|that|provoc|of|good
fellowship
two hundred and twenty|as|thou|the|queen|of|isl|great|britain
both|for|excel|in|soil|and|air|as|also|for|larg|con
tinent|she|hath|this|titl|and|although|in|ancient|time
of|the|gieek|that|hath|ani|stori|or|chorographi|sardinia
was|account|the|greatest|isl|and|by|some|sicili|as|the
old|vers|of|the|seveii|tell|us|and|that|by|ptolemi|the
east|indian|tapohran|now|call|sumatra|had|preemin
of|quantiti|befor|this|of|our|yet|certain|by|com
parison|of|that|with|this|either|accord|to|the|measur
took|of|it|by|onesicrit|upon|alexand|s|command|or
what|later|time|teach|us|we|can|not|but|affirm|with|the
author|here|in|substanc|that
ojh|s|tig|kxxjj
nraoig|sv|taffjff|biraviaiv|ffopa|t
honest|men|by|simplic|of|natur|look|onli|to|their|own
neglect|other|mdlmejihur
scylax|caryand|in|trt|ii|edit|per|d|hoeschelium
eustath|ad|diouy|afrum
three|kvjgra|h|lib|cap|t|solin|polyhist|cap|sixty-six
f|ko|other|isl|is|equal|to|britain
sixty-two|polyolbiox
as|long|sinc|dionijsm|afer|of|our|britain|which|hath
given|becaus|to|call|it|anoth|world|as|the|attribut|of|it
in|virgil|horac|claudian|and|other|justifi
two hundred and forty-two|and|learn|long|with|us|ere|hiva|with|them|in|use
for|the|dndds|be|in|profess|veri|proportion|in
mani|thing|to|cabalist|and|pythagorean|doctrin|may
well|be|suppos|much|ancient|than|ani|that|had|note|of
learn|among|the|iloman|who|befor|livius|saunat
and|ncevius|ennius|pacuviii|accius|and|other|not|much
preced|ccesar|can|scarc|show|step|of|poesi|nor|befor
fahius|pictor|valerius|antia|and|some|such|now|left|onli
iu|their|name|althoug|by|pretenc|of|annius|there|be|a
piec|of|pictor|publish|can|produc|the|titl|of|a|stori
wherea|we|have|some|that|make|that|suppos|eldest|his
torian|of|the|gentil|extant|dare|phryglus|translat|by
c|rnelius|nepo|and|dedic|to|sallust|to|have|live|here
but|inde|upon|no|such|warrant|as|i|dare|trust
two hundred and forty-four|our|geffrey|monmouth|rs|our|brutus|to|devis
it|ava|so|laid|to|geffrey|s|charg|he|was|bishop|of|s
asa|h|s|under|king|stejyhen|by|john|of|whethamst|abbot
of|s|alban|william|petit|call|william|of|newborough
and|some|other|but|plain|let|the|rest|of|his|stori|and
the|particular|of|prute|be|as|they|can|the|name|of|brute
was|long|befor|him|in|welsh|out|of|avhich|his|stori|was
part|translat|and|latin|testimoni|of|the|britain|as
i|have|for|the|author|more|larg|spoken|to|the|first
song|and|a|littl|to|continu|my|first|justif|for
this|time|whi|may|not|we|as|well|think|that|mani|stori
and|relat|ancient|written|here|liav|been|by|the
pict|scot|lloiiian|dane|sanm|and|norman|devour
up|from|poster|which|perhap|had|they|been|left|to|us
v|liv|dccaa|one|lib|g|bal|centur|one
the|textil|song|i
would|have|end|this|controversi|shall|we|doubt|of
what|livi|pohjuus|halicarnasseus|plutarch|strabo|and
mani|other|have|had|out|of|fablus|antia|cherea|solyhi
ejhorus|theopompus|cato|quadrigarius|with|infinit|other
now|lost|writer|becaus|e|see|not|the|self|author
no|time|hath|ransack|more|precious|thing|and|even
those|superexcel|book|wherein|that|incompar|solo
mon|avrot|from|the|cedar|to|the|hyssop|were|upon|fear
of|the|facil|midtitud|too|much|respect|natur|caus
in|them|divin|handl|by|king|ezechia|suppress|from
succeed|age|if|my|author|deceiv|not|so|that|the
loss|in|this|and|all|kind|to|the|commonwealth|of|letter
hath|been|so|grievous|and|irrepar|that|we|may|well
imagin|how|error|of|conceit|in|some|envi|in|other|and
hostil|invas|hath|bereft|us|of|mani|monument|most
precious|in|all|sort|of|literatur|if|we|now|enjoy|their
instruct|use|and|to|conclud|the|antiqu|of|these
origin|age|are|like|those|of|eom|between|it|built|and
burnt|by|the|gaul|cum|vetust|nimid|ohscurc|velat|quce
as|livi|say|magno|ex|intervallo|loci|vix|cernuntur|turn
quod|perrarc|per|eadem|tempora|literc|fuer|una|custodia
fide|memoric|rerum|gestarum|et|quod|efiamsi|quce|hi
commentarii|pontificum|aliisqu|puhuci|privatisqu|erant|monu
menti|incensa|urb|pleraqu|interier|but|all|this|in|effect
the|muse|tell|you|in|the|sixth|canto
2or|to|letter|never|would|their|mysteri|commit
avhat|they|taught|their|scholar|for|matter|of|law
heathenish|religion|and|such|learn|as|they|here|were
presid|of|was|deliv|onli|by|word|of|mouth|and
in|zerror|hamnior|apiul|munst|ad|exoil|fifteen|decemb|one|lib|six
worn|away|by|devour|time|and|the|enemi|s|ransack|the
citi|c|of|the|druvu|see|fulli|to|the|ninth|song
oa|sar|de|bell|gallic|lib|six
four|polyolbiox
lest|memori|unus|might|so|fail|they|permit|not|com
mission|of|their|lectur|and|instruct|to|the|custodi
of|oritin|hut|deliv|all|in|a|multitud|of|vers|and
pithatjorean|precept|exact|imit|the|cabal|isf|which
until|of|late|time|wrote|not|5jut|taught|and|learn|by
mouth|and|dihgent|hear|of|their|jrahbin|in|other
matter|privat|and|public|so|is|ccesar|s|assert|they
use|greek|letter|which|hath|made|some|think|that|they
vtote|greek|but|be|not|easil|thereto|persuad|perhap
thev|misht|use|greel|charact|seeius|that|those|which|the
greek|then|had|and|now|use|were|at|first|receiv|from
stranger|and|as|like|from|the|druid|as|from|ani|other
for|it|is|suffici|justifi|out|of|old|coin|inscript
and|express|assert|that|the|ancient|charact|among|the
greek|was|almost|the|same|avith|that|which|is|now|the
latin|but|thenc|to|collect|that|therefor|they|wrote|or
spake|greek|is|as|if|you|should|affirm|the|sjriac|testament
to|be|hebrew|becaus|publish|in|hebrew|letter|or|some
latin|treatis|saxon|becaus|in|that|charact|or|that
the|siixon|wrote|irish|becaus|they|use|the|lish|form|of
write|or|that|those|book|whirh|are|publish|in|dutth
by|some|jeic|in|a|special|kind|of|hcbrev|letter|should|also
be|of|the|same|tongu|observ|but|this|passag|in|cevsar
he|send|by|a|gaul|allur|to|this|use|against|his|countri
by|larg|reward|a|letter|to|q|cicero|be|then|besieg
about|where|now|is|tourneij|f|et|groxi|conscripsit|uteri|ne
intcrceptd|epistold|nostra|saith|he|himself|ab|hostihus|con
citif|lis|literi|utuntur
what|languag|and|letter|the|druid|use
varro|de|ling|lat|seven
plin|hist|nat|seven|cap|fifty-eight|et|si|placet|videaa|anniano|illo
archiloclium|de|temporibus|et|xenophonteni|in|wiqiiivoci
canid|in|hibernia|etc|per|graca|litera|in|ara|ulyssi|incon
finio|khctia|et|germaniif|ajjud|tacituiu|lipsius|character
soluniniodu|intellitnt
t|neruii|de|beilo|gallic|five
the|texth|soxg|five
sslim|cfjimscanlwr|to|what|pmpose|did|he|thus|if|the
gaui|or|their|statesmen|the|dmifh|understood|greeif|i
kno|what|he|write|of|those|tabl|of|aceonnt|foond|in
the|now|swuzerlmml|but|shall|not|soon|behet|that|thejr
had|much|more|greek|in|them|than|the|diazact|if|joa
object|stmbo|his|affirm|that|the|gutuh|for|as|long|as|i
speak|of|them|in|general|in|this|kind|i|wdl|indnd|oar
druidj|as|suffici|reason|is|elsewher|giren|were|grown
such|lorer|of|that|tongu|anr|juu|to|ejtshaia|exjpctri
iaat|it|is|soon|answer|that|he|speak|onfi|of|thte
about|maimregj|which|was|and|is|well|known|to|all|men
to|have|been|a|colon|j|of|phman|out|of|the|now|naidm
which|were|greel|bj|appoint|of|fate|amt|at|the
mouth|of|bhmne|about|time|of|tarqum|the|pnmd|wbere
pnyli|one|of|their|chief|leader|entertain|hf|kumwrn
king|of|that|coast|was|choei|accord|to|their|custom
in|a|banquet|bj|gf|the|king|s|daughter|fcff|her|husband
hereto|success|grew|so|fortun|that|honour|respect
on|both|side|join|with|imit|of|grtek|civilitjr|after
this|citj|built|neiar|their|arrir|it|seem|as|m|j|author
sat|as|if|garni|had|been|turn|into|grmee|rather|than
gntm|to|hare|trarel|into|gnml|wonder|not|then|whj
about|31driligj|greek|was|so|respect|nor|whi|in|the
romauiilfremh|now|such|hellen|are|here|jou|see
appar|origin|of|it|yet|conclud|upon|the|former
rea|jii|that|the|dntid|and|gutah|use|a|peculiar|tongu
and|retj|like|the|same|with|the|now|jtddi|as|most
learn|cmmiem|hath|even|demonstr|althou|i|know
some|great|scholar|tiier|are|whidi|still|suspend|their
judgment|and|make|it|a|doubt|as|ever|thing|of|such
wrote|it|in|grtnt|lest|tbe|eneamj|mit|by|imterecptiiig|ila
letter|oiscor|his|teigin
i|t|lt|kjh|uiaic|one|gcograf|li|i
t|that|ikej|wrote|thrar|instnimentb|of|oontaact|in|gnti
three|trog|pomap|hisl|forty-three
vol|n|five
sixty-six|folyolbion
antiqu|avil|be|but|if|you|will|add|hereto|that|of|the
famous|and|great|lawyer|hotoman|who|presum|that|the
word|graci|in|cccsar|s|text|is|crept|in|by|ignor|of
transcrib|as|he|well|might|see|those|commentari
titl|with|name|of|casar|common|publish|and|in
diver|mss|with|celsus|are|veri|unperfect|now|and
then|abrupt|differ|in|style|and|so|variabl|in|their|own
form|that|it|hath|been|much|fear|by|that|great|critic
lipsius|lest|some|more|impolit|hand|hath|sew|mani
patch|of|base|cloth|into|that|more|rich|web|as|his|own
metaphor|express|it|and|if|those|charact|which|are
in|the|pillar|at|yvoella|in|denbighshir|are|of|the|druid
as|some|imagin|yet|seem|veri|strang|and|uncouth
then|might|you|more|confid|concur|in|opinion|with
hotoman|in|sum|i|know|that|graxi|uteri|may|be|taken
as|well|for|the|languag|as|in|justin|i|rememb|and|els
where|as|for|the|charact|but|here|i|can|never|think|it
to|be|understood|in|ani|but|the|last|sens|although|you
admit|ccesar|s|copi|to|be|therein|not|interpol|it|is
veri|justifi|which|the|author|here|i|am|lie|by|slight
ccesar|s|author|in|british|origin|ni|respect|that|he
never|came|further|into|the|isl|than|a|littl|beyond|thame
toward|barkeshir|although|some|of|our|idl|talk|of|his
make|the|bath|and|be|at|chester|as|the|scottish|histo
rian|most|senseless|of|their|willi|ioff|built|by|him
which|other|refer|to|vespasianj|some|affirm|it|a|templ|of
god|terminus|wherea|it|seem|expressli|to|be|built|by
carnusius|in|time|of|diocletian|if|nennius|deceiv|us|not
but|this|out|of|my|way
fiancogal|cap|two|quern|v|etiam|ad|caesar|coiu|greek
elect|two|cap|seven|l|four|istol|qiioest|two|cajj|two
hist|lilj|twenty|in|cxtrcma
ctusareiii|si|lega|tibi|ipsi|satisfacia|verfim|ct|ita|leland|ad
cyg|can|not|in|ijaln
vercniund|ap|hect|boct|hist|three
buchanan|hist|four|in|uonaldo
the|eleventh|song
one
i|the|argument
the|muse|her|nativ|earth|to|see
return|to|england|over|dee
visit|stout|cheshir|and|there|show
to|her|and|her|what|england|owe
and|of|the|nijinphet|sport|there
in|wyrral|and|in|delamer
weever|the|great|devot|sing
of|the|religi|saxon|king
those|riveret|doth|togeth|call
that|into|him|and|wersey|fall
thenc|bear|to|the|side|of|peak
this|zealous|canto|ojfdoth|break
ith|as|umveari|wing|and|in|as|liig|a|gait
as|avhen|ave|first|set|forth|observ|everi|stat
the|muse|from|cambria|come|with|pinion
summ|d|and|sound
and|have|mt|herself|upon|the|english|ground
fiist|seizeth|in|her|cours|the|noblest|cestriaa|shore|s
of|our|great|emjlllt|blood|as|care|here|of|yore
as|cambria|of|her|brute|s|now|is|or|could|be|then
for|which|our|proverb|call|her|cheshir|chief|of|men
sixty-eight|polyolbion
and|of|our|counti|place|of|palatin|doth|hold
and|thereto|hath|her|high|eegal|enrou|d|lo
besid|in|mani|field|sinc|conquer|jfuliam|came
her|peopl|she|hath|prov|d|to|her|etern|fame
all|children|of|her|own|the|leader|and|the|led
the|mightiest|men|of|bone|in|her|full|bosom|bred
and|neither|of|them|such|as|cold|penuri|need|fifteen
spur|to|each|rash|attempt|but|such|as|sound|feed
clad|in|warm|english|cloth|and|maim|d|should|they|return
whom|this|fals|ruthless|world|els|from|theii|door|would
sj|urn
have|livelihood|of|their|own|their|age|to|sustain
nor|did|the|tenant|pay|the|landlord|s|charg|maintain|twenty
but|as|abroad|in|war|he|spent|of|his|estat
return|to|his|home|his|hospit|gate
the|richer|and|the|poor|stood|open|to|receiv
they|of|all|england|most|to|ancient|custom|cleav
their|yeomanri|and|still|endeavour|d|to|uphold|twenty-five
for|right|whilst|herself|brave|england|was|of|old
and|our|courag|king|us|forth|to|conquest|led
our|armi|in|those|time|neer|through|the|world|so|dread
of|our|tall|yeomen|were|and|footmen|for|the|most
who|with|their|bill|and|bow|may|confid|boast|thirty
our|leopard|they|so|long|and|brave|did|advanc
abov|the|flowcrdclic|evyou|in|the|heart|of|franc
thou|thrice|happi|shire|confin|so|to|be
twixt|two|so|famous|flood|as|mcrsoj|is|and|dee
thi|dee|upon|the|west|from|wale|doth|thee|divid|thirty-five
thi|mersey|on|the|north|from|the|lancastrian|side
thi|natur|sister|shire|and|link|d|unto|thee|so
that|lancashir|along|with|cheshir|still|doth|go
as|towrd|the|drrhian|penh|and|mareland|which|do|draw
more|mountain|and|wild|the|highcrowu|d|tshuilingslaic
the|general|bouud|of|chcishir
the|eleventh|song|sixty-nine
and|molcop|be|thi|mound|with|those|proud|hill|whenc
rove|forty-one
the|love|sister|brook|the|silveri|dane|and|dove
clear|dove|that|make|to|trent|the|other|to|the|west
but|iu|that|famous|town|most|happi|of|the|rest
from|which|thou|takst|thi|name|fair|chester|call|d|of|old
carelecjion|whilst|proud|rome|her|conquest|here|did|hold
of|those|her|legion|known|the|faith|station|then|forty-seven
so|stout|held|to|tack|by|those|near|northjfcd|men
yet|by|her|own|right|name|had|rather|call|be
as|her|the|britan|term|d|the|fortress|tipon|dee|so
then|vain|she|would|seem|a|miiacl|to|stand
th|imaginari|work|of|some|huge|giant|s|hand
which|if|such|ever|were|tradit|tell|not|who
but|back|awhil|my|muse|to|jfeever|let|us|go
which|with|himself|compar|d|each|british|flood|doth
scorn|five
his|fountain|and|his|fall|both|cjiester|right|born
the|countri|in|his|cours|that|clean|through|doth|divid
cut|in|two|equal|share|upon|his|either|side
and|what|the|famous|flood|far|more|than|that|enrich
the|bracki|fountain|are|those|two|renown|jfijch|cu
the|nantirych|and|the|north|whose|either|brini|well
for|store|and|sort|of|salt|make|jfeever|to|excel
besid|their|general|use|not|had|by|him|in|vain
but|in|himself|therebi|doth|holi|retain
abov|his|fellow|flood|whose|health|virtu|taught|cs
hath|of|the|seagod|oft|caus|d|jfeever|to|be|sought
for|physic|in|their|need|and|theti|oft|hath|seen
when|by|their|wanton|sport|her|nereid|have|been
so|sick|that|glaucus|self|hath|itxil|in|their|cure
yet|jfeever|by|his|salt|recoveri|durst|assur|vo
and|amphitrit|oft|this|wizard|liiver|led
into|her|secret|walk|the|depth|profound|and|dread
seventy|polyolbion
of|him|suppo|d|so|wise|the|hid|event|to|know
of|thing|that|were|to|come|as|thing|done|long|ago
in|which|he|had|been|prov|d|most|exquisit|to|be|vs
and|bare|his|fame|so|far|that|oft|twixt|him|and|dee
much|strife|there|hath|aros|in|their|prophet|skill
but|to|conclud|his|prais|our|weever|here|doth|will
the|muse|his|sourc|to|sing|as|how|his|cours|he|steer
who|from|his|natur|spring|as|from|his|neighbour
mere|so
suffici|suppli|d|shoot|forth|his|silver|breast
as|though|he|meant|to|take|direct|toward|the|east
until|at|length|it|prove|he|loitreth|but|to|play
till|ashhrook|and|the|lee|oertak|him|on|the|wav
which|to|his|journey|s|end|him|earnest|do|hast|w
till|have|got|to|jfich|he|take|there|a|tast
of|her|most|savouri|salt|is|by|the|sacr|touch
forc|d|faster|in|his|cours|his|motion|quickn|much
to|northivych|and|at|last|as|he|approacheth|near
dane|whelock|draw|then|crock|from|that|black|omin
mere|ninety
account|one|of|those|that|england|s|wonder|make
of|neighbour|blackmer|nam|d|of|stranger|brereton
lake
whose|properti|seem|far|from|eeason|s|way|to|stand
for|near|befor|his|death|that|is|owner|of|the|land
she|send|up|stock|of|tree|that|on|the|top|do|float|ys
by|which|the|world|her|first|did|for|a|wonder|note
his|handmaid|hoviy|next|to|jfeever|hold|her|race
when|peever|with|the|help|of|pickmcr|make|apac
to|putin|with|those|stream|his|sacr|step|that|tread
into|the|mighti|wast|of|memeij|him|to|lead|one hundred
where|when|the|kiver|meet|with|all|their|state|train
proud|mersey|is|so|great|in|entr|of|the|jmain
as|he|would|make|a|show|for|emperi|to|stand
the|eleventh|song|j|seventy-one
and|wrest|tlie|threefork|d|mace|from|out|grim|neptun|s
hand
to|clieshir|high|bound|for|that|his|watri|store|los
as|to|the|grosser|lousch|on|the|lancastrian|shore
from|henc|he|getteth|goit|down|from|her|peajdsh|spring
and|louen|that|along|doth|nimbler|birkin|bring
from|mayfield|s|mighti|avild|of|avhos|shagg|d|sylvan|she
hath|in|the|rock|been|woo|d|their|paramour|to|be|no
who|in|the|darksom|hole|and|cavern|kept|her|long
and|that|proud|forest|made|a|parti|to|her|wrong
yet|could|not|all|intreat|the|pretti|brook|to|stay
which|to|her|sister|stream|sweet|bouen|creep|away
to|whom|upon|their|road|she|pleasant|report|one hundred and fifteen
the|mani|mirth|jest|and|wanton|woodish|sport
in|maxficld|they|have|had|as|of|that|forest|s|fate
until|they|come|at|length|where|mersey|for|more|state
assum|broader|bank|himself|so|proud|bear
that|at|his|stern|approach|extend|ivijrrau|fear|one hundred and twenty
that|what|betwixt|his|flood|of|mersey|and|the|dee
in|veri|littl|time|devour|he|might|be
out|of|the|foam|surg|till|ililhr|lift|his|head
to|let|the|foreland|see|how|rich|he|had|sped
which|mersey|cheer|so|much|that|with|a|smile|brow|one hundred and twenty-five
he|fawn|on|both|those|flood|their|amor|arm|that
throw
about|his|good|neck|and|bar|d|their|swell|breast
on|which|whilst|lull|d|with|eas|his|pleas|cheek|he|rest
the|naiad|sit|near|upon|the|age|rock
are|busi|with|their|comb|to|braid|his|verdant|lock|iso
whilst|in|their|crystal|eye|he|doth|for|cupid|look
but|delamer|from|them|his|fanci|quick|took
who|shew|herself|all|drest|in|most|delici|flower
mere|or|staiuung|lake
a|poetic|descript|of|wyrral
i|j
polyolbion
and|sit|like|a|queen|see|from|her|shadi|boaver
the|wanton|woodnymph|mix|d|withherliglitfootedfaun
to|lead|the|rural|rout|about|the|good|lawn|vm
as|over|holt|and|heath|as|thorough|frith|and|felp
and|oft|at|barleybreak|and|prisonbas|to|tell
in|carol|as|they|cours|each|other|all|the|joy
the|passag|deceit|the|sleight|the|amor|toy|i40
the|subtil|seaxymph|had|their|jfyrrah|s|love|to|win
but|weever|now|again|to|warn|them|doth|begin
to|leav|these|trivial|toy|which|in|he|did|hate
that|neither|them|beseem|d|nor|stood|with|his|estat
be|one|that|gave|himself|industri|to|know|one hundred and forty-five
what|monument|our|king|erect|long|ago
to|which|the|flood|himself|so|wholli|did|appli
as|though|upon|his|skill|the|rest|should|all|reli
and|bent|himself|to|shew|that|yet|the|britan|bold
whom|tlie|labori|muse|so|high|had|extol|d|i5o
those|later|saxon|king|cxcell|d|not|in|their|deed
and|therefor|with|their|prais|thus|zealous|proceed
whilst|the|celesti|power|th|arriv|time|attend
when|oer|this|general|isl|the|britan|reign|should|end
ami|for|the|spoil|phi|here|prosprous|had|wrought|one hundred and fifty-five
into|th|afflict|land|which|strong|invas|brought
and|to|that|proud|attempt|what|yet|his|power|might|want
the|i|willdispos|heaven|bnde|s|offspr|to|supplant
their|angri|plagu|downpour|d|insati|in|their|wast
need|must|they|fall|whom|heaven|doth|to|destruct
hast|one hundred
and|that|which|last|came|to|consumm|the|rest
those|prouder|sd|vn|power|which|liber|they|jjrest
against|th|invad|pid|of|purpos|hire|in
from|those|which|paid|them|wage|the|island|soon|did|win
a|wood|grow|ou|a|hill|or|knoll
high|wood|low|coppic
the|eleventh|song|seventy-three
and|sooner|overspread|be|master|of|the|field|loo
those|first|for|whom|they|fought|too|impot|to|wield
a|land|within|itself|that|had|so|great|a|foe
and|therefor|thought|it|fit|them|wise|to|bestow
which|over|sercrn|here|they|in|the|mountain|shut
and|some|upon|that|point|of|conuval|forth|they|put|iro
yet|forc|were|they|there|their|station|to|defend
nor|could|our|men|peimit|the|britan|to|descend
from|jore|or|mar|alon|but|brought|their|blood|as|high
from|woden|by|which|name|they|style|mercuri
nor|were|the|race|of|brute|which|rule|here|befor|ir
more|zealous|to|the|god|they|l|rouglit|unto|this|shore
than|hengist|s|nobl|heir|their|idol|that|to|rais
here|put|their|german|name|upon|our|aveek|day
these|nobl|saxon|were|a|nation|hard|and|stron
on|sundri|land|and|sea|in|warfar|nuzzl|long|iso
afflict|through|knew|and|in|proud|fortun|s|spite
even|in|the|jaw|of|death|had|dar|d|her|utmost|might
who|under|hcngist|first|and|horsa|their|brave|chief
from|german|arriv|d|and|with|the|strong|relief
of|th|angl|and|the|jute|them|readi|to|suppli|is5
which|ancient|had|been|of|their|affin
by|scijthia|first|sent|out|which|could|not|give|them|meat
aver|forc|d|to|seek|a|soil|wherein|themselv|to|seat
them|at|the|last|on|dansk|their|lingr|fortun|drave
avher|ilulst|unto|their|troop|suffici|harbour|gave|loo
these|wit|the|saxon|went|and|fortun|wan
whose|captain|hengist|first|a|kingdom|here|began
in|kent|where|his|great|heir|ere|other|princ|rose
of|saxong|s|descent|their|ful|to|oppos
with|swell|humber|s|side|their|empir|did|confin|one hundred and ninety-five
and|of|the|rest|not|least|renown|of|their|line
see|concern|their|come|to|the|first|fourth|and|eighth
song
seventy-four|poltolbiox
good|efhelhert|oi|kent|tli|first|christn|euglish|king
to|preach|the|faith|of|christ|was|first|did|hither|bring
wise|augu|st|one thousand, seven hundred and sixteen|the|monk|from|holi|gregori|sent
this|most|rehgioii|king|with|most|devout|intent|two hundred
that|mighti|fane|to|foul|in|london|did|erect
and|privileg|gave|this|templ|to|protect
his|equal|then|in|zeal|came|ercomhert|again
from|that|first|christn|king|the|second|in|that|reign
the|gluttoni|then|us|d|sever|to|suppress|two hundred and five
and|make|men|fit|to|prayer|much|hindr|by|excess
that|abstin|from|flesh|for|forti|day|began
which|by|the|name|of|lent|is|known|to|everi|man
as|mighti|hengist|here|by|forc|of|arm|had|done
so|ella|come|in|soon|from|the|britan|won|two hundred and ten
the|countri|neighbour|kent|which|lie|from|the
main
direct|to|the|south|did|proper|obtain
the|southern|saxon|name|and|not|the|last|therebi
amongst|the|other|reign|which|made|the|heptarchi
so|in|the|high|descent|of|that|south|oj|king|two hundred and fifteen
we|in|the|beadrol|here|of|our|religi|bring
wise|elhehrald|alon|who|christian|not|becam
but|will|that|his|folk|should|all|receiv|the|name
saint|jntfrid|sent|from|yort|into|his|realm|receiv|d
whom|the|northumbrian|folk|had|of|his|see|bereav|d|two hundred and twenty
and|on|the|south|of|thame|a|seat|did|him|afford
by|whom|that|peopl|first|receiv|d|the|save|word
as|likewis|from|the|loin|of|errhimoin|avho|rai|d
th|ustsaxon|kingdom|first|brave|sebert|may|be
prai|d
vlich|as|that|king|of|ke7it|had|with|such|cost|and|state|two hundred and twenty-five
built|paul|s|his|great|so|this|king|to|imit
began|the|good|church|of|jrestininst|to|rear
the|primer|english|king|so|truli|zealous|were
the|eleventh|song|seventy-five
then|sebba|of|his|seed|that|did|them|all|surpass
who|fitter|for|a|shrine|than|for|a|sceptr|was|two hundred and thirty
abov|the|power|of|flesh|his|appetit|to|sterv
that|his|desir|christ|he|strict|might|observ
even|in|his|height|of|life|in|health|in|bodi|strong
persuad|with|his|queen|a|ladi|fair|and|young
to|separ|themselv|and|in|a|sole|estat|two hundred and thirty-five
after|reli2|ious|sort|themselv|to|dedic
whose|nephew|uffa|next|inflam|d|with|his|high|prais
enrich|that|proud|fane|his|grandsir|first|did|rais
abandon|the|world|he|found|so|full|of|strife
and|after|liv|d|in|rome|a|strict|religi|life|two hundred and forty
nor|these|our|princ|here|of|that|pure|sawn|strain
avhich|took|unto|themselv|each|one|their|sever|reign
for|their|so|god|deed|deserv|greater|fame
than|th|angl|their|alli|that|hither|with|them|came
who|sharingout|themselv|a|kingdom|in|the|east|two hundred and forty-five
with|th|eastern|angl|name|their|circuit|did|invest
by|uffa|in|that|part|so|happili|begun
whose|successor|the|crown|for|martyrdom|have|won
from|all|befor|or|sinc|that|ever|suffr|here
itedwald|s|religi|son|who|for|their|saviour|dear|two hundred and fifty
by|cruel|heathenish|hand|unmerci|slain
amongst|us|evermor|remembr|shall|remain
and|in|the|roll|of|saint|must|have|a|special|room
where|dencald|to|all|time|with|erpemvakl|shall|come
when|in|that|way|they|went|next|sehert|them|succeed
scarc|second|again|for|sanctimoni|deed|two hundred and fifty-six
who|for|a|privat|life|when|he|his|rule|resign|d
and|to|his|cloister|long|had|strict|him|confin|d
a|corslet|for|his|cowl|was|glad|again|to|take
his|countri|to|defend|for|his|religion|s|sake|2co
against|proud|peiula|com|n|with|all|his|pagan|power
seboa|a|monk|in|paul|s
seventy-six|rolyolbion
those|christn|angl|then|of|purpos|to|devour
and|suffr|with|his|folk|by|penda|s|heathenish|pride
as|he|a|saint|had|liv|d|a|constant|iartyr|die
when|after|it|fell|out|that|offa|had|not|long|2c5
held|that|by|cruel|forc|which|fenda|got|by|wrong
adopt|for|his|heir|young|edmond|brought|him|in
even|at|what|time|the|dane|this|island|sought|to|win
who|christn|soon|becam|and|as|religi|grown
as|those|most|heathenish|were|who|set|him|on|his|throne
did|expiat|in|that|place|his|predecessor|s|guilt|twenty-one
which|so|much|christian|blood|so|cruelli|had|spilt
for|taken|by|the|dane|who|did|all|tortur|ixj
his|saviour|jesus|christ|to|forc|him|to|deni
first|beat|him|with|bat|but|no|advantag|got|2t5
his|bodi|full|of|shaft|then|cruelli|they|shot
the|constant|martyr|d|king|a|saint|thus|just|crown|d
to|whom|even|in|that|place|that|jmouuraent|renown|d
those|afterag|built|to|his|etern|fame
what|english|hath|not|heard|saint|edmond|bunj|name
as|of|those|angl|here|so|from|their|loin|again|2si
whose|hand|hew|d|out|their|way|to|the|jfestsexian|reign
from|ken|rich|or|that|claim|from|cerdick|to|descend
a|partnership|in|fame|great|ina|might|pretend
with|ani|king|sinc|first|the|saxon|came|to|shore|2sf
of|all|those|christn|here|who|higlili|did|ador
the|godhead|than|that|man|one|or|more|that|did|appli
his|poaver|t|advanc|the|church|in|true|sincer
great|glastenhari|then|so|wondrous|decay|d
whose|old|foundat|first|the|ancient|dritan|lay|d|two hundred
he|glorious|rebuilt|enrich|it|with|plate
and|mani|a|sumptuous|cope|to|use|consecr
ordain|god|law|for|govern|this|land
of|all|the|saxon|king|the|salon|he|shall|stand
in|sufolk
the|eleventh|song|seventy-seven
from|otfa|born|with|him|who|did|this|isl|invad|two|jo
and|had|a|conquest|first|of|the|nortluiinhnan|made
and|tributari|long|of|mightier|heiigist|held
till|ida|after|born|the|kentish|power|expel|d
and|absolut|sat|on|the|dierkin|seat
but|afterward|resign|d|to|ethelrid|the|great|sjo
an|armi|into|jfale|who|for|invas|led
at|chester|and|in|figit|their|forc|vanquish
into|their|utter|spoil|then|public|way|to|make
the|longreligi|hous|of|good|bangor|brake
and|slew|a|thousand|monk|as|they|devout|pray|d|three hundred and five
for|which|his|cruel|spoil|upon|the|christian|made
though|with|the|just|consent|of|christian|saxon|slain
his|blood|the|heathenish|hand|of|eedwald|did|distain
that|murthrer|s|issu|next|this|kingdom|were|exil|d
and|edwyn|took|the|rule|a|princ|as|just|and|mild|yio
as|th|other|faithless|were|nor|could|time|ever|brinsr
in|all|the|sevenfold|rule|an|absolut|king
and|more|t|advanc|the|faith|his|utmost|power|that|lent
who|reordain|york|a|bishop|s|govern
and|so|much|lov|d|the|poor|that|in|the|way|of|trade|three hundred and fifteen
where|fountain|fit|were|he|iron|dish|made
and|fastn|them|with|chain|the|wayfar|to|eas
and|the|poor|pilgrim|thirst|there|rest|to|appeas
as|mercia|mongst|the|rest|sought|not|the|least|to|rais
tlie|save|christian|faith|nor|merit|humbler|prais|three hundred and twenty
nor|those|that|from|the|stem|of|saxon|creda|came
the|britan|who|expul|d|were|ani|whit|in|fame
for|pieti|and|zeal|behind|the|other|best
though|heathenish|pcnda|long|and|proud|did|infest
the|christn|neighbour|king|and|forc|d|them|all|to
bow|three hundred and twenty-five
till|oswij|made|to|god|a|most|religi|vow
otta|brother|to|jlemjusl
seventy-eight|polyolbion
of|his|abound|grace|would|he|be|plea|d|to|grant
that|he|this|panim|princ|in|battl|might|sujipl
a|reclus|he|would|give|his|daughter|and|delight
sweet|alfl|then|in|youth|and|as|the|morn|bright|three hundred and thirty
and|have|his|request|he|gave|as|he|obtain|d
though|his|unnatur|hand|succeed|wulpher|stain|d
in|his|own|children|s|blood|whom|their|dear|mother|had
confirm|d|in|chiist|s|belief|by|that|most|reverend|chad
yet|to|embrac|the|faith|when|after|he|began|three hundred and thirty-five
for|the|unnaturalst|deed|that|eer|was|done|by|man
if|possibl|it|were|to|expiat|his|guilt
here|mani|a|good|hous|to|holi|use|built
and|she|to|purg|his|crime|on|her|dear|children|done
a|crown|queen|for|him|becam|a|veil|nun|three hundred and forty
what|age|a|godlier|princ|than|etlichlr|could|bring|one
or|than|our|kinr|here|a|more|religi|king
both|take|them|the|cowl|th|one|here|his|flesh|did|tame
the|other|went|to|liom|and|there|a|monk|becam
so|ethelhald|may|well|be|set|the|rest|among|three hundred and forty-five
who|though|most|vain|given|wlien|he|was|hot|and|young
yet|by|the|wise|reproof|of|god|bishop|brought
from|those|unstay|d|delight|by|which|his|youth|was|caught
he|all|the|former|king|of|mercia|did|exceed
and|through|his|rule|the|church|from|tax|strong
freed|three hundred and fifty
then|to|the|eastern|sea|in|that|deep|watri|fen
which|seem|d|a|thing|so|much|imposs|to|men
he|that|great|abbey|built|of|crowlaml|as|though|he
would|have|no|oth|rs|work|like|his|foundat|be
as|zero|fa|greater|far|than|ani|him|befor|three hundred and fifty-five
whose|conquest|scarc|were|suffic|d|with|all|the|shore
but|over|into|ittdca|adventur|he|shot
his|mercian|spacious|mere|and|powsland|to|it|got
j|0a|ditch
tee|eleventh|song|seventy-nine
this|king|even|in|that|place|where|with|rude|heap|of
stone
the|britan|had|interr|d|their|protomartyr|s|bone|seo
that|good|abbey|built|to|alhan|as|to|show
how|much|the|son|of|brute|should|to|the|saxon|owe
but|when|by|power|heaven|it|ava|decre|at|last
that|all|those|sevenfold|eul|should|into|one|be|cast
which|quick|to|a|head|by|britrilc|death|was|brought|ir5
then|egbert|who|in|franc|had|care|been|taught
eeturn|home|was|king|of|the|westsexian|made
avhos|peopl|then|most|rich|and|potent|him|persuad
as|onc|it|was|of|old|to|monarch|the|land
who|follow|their|advic|first|with|a|warlik|hand|three hundred and seventy
the|cornish|overcam|and|thenc|with|prosper|sail
oer|severn|set|his|power|into|the|heart|of|wale
and|with|the|mercian|there|a|bloodi|battl|wag|d
wherein|he|wan|their|rule|and|with|his|wound|enrag|d
went|on|against|the|rest|which|sad|when|they|saw|three hundred and seventy-five
how|those|had|sped|befor|with|most|subject|awe
submit|them|to|his|sword|who|prosper|alon
lieduc|d|the|sevenfold|eul|to|his|peculiar|throne
extirp|other|style|and|gave|it|england|s|name
of|th|angl|from|whose|race|his|nobler|father|came|aso
when|scarc|egbert|here|an|entir|rule|began
but|instant|the|dane|the|island|overran
a|peopl|that|their|own|those|saxon|paid|again
for|as|the|britan|first|they|treacher|had|slain
this|thiid|upon|their|neck|a|heavier|burthen|lay|d|three hundred and eighty-five
than|they|had|upon|those|whom|fals|they|betray|would
and|for|each|other|s|state|though|oft|they|here|did|toil
a|peopl|from|their|hrst|bent|natur|to|spoil
that|cruelti|with|them|from|their|begin|brought
egbert|s|predecessor|see|to|tlie|first|song
eighty|polyolbion
yet|when|the|christian|faith|in|them|had|through
wrought|sao
of|anj|in|the|avorld|no|stori|shall|us|tell
which|did|the|saxon|race|in|pious|deed|excel
that|in|these|drowsi|time|should|i|in|puhlic|bring
each|great|peculiar|act|of|everi|god|king
the|world|might|stand|amaz|d|in|this|our|age|to|see|three hundred and ninety-five
those|good|fane|of|their|which|irreligi|we
let|everi|day|decay|and|yet|we|onli|live
by|the|great|freedom|then|those|king|to|these|did|give
avis|seghert|worthi|prais|prepar|us|the|seat
of|famous|camhridrj|first|then|with|endow|great
the|muse|to|maintain|those|sister|thither|brought|four hundred and one
by|whose|exampl|next|religi|alfr|taught
renown|oxford|built|t|jlpullus|learn|brood
and|on|the|hallow|bank|of|his|good|flood
worthi|the|glorious|art|did|gorgeous|bower|provid|four hundred and five
he|into|sever|shire|the|kingdom|did|divid
so|valiant|edgar|first|most|happili|destroy|d
the|multitud|of|wolv|that|long|the|land|annoy|d
and|our|good|edward|here|the|confessor|and|king
unto|whose|sumptuous|shrine|our|monarch|offr
bring|four hundred and ten
that|cankr|evil|cur|d|bred|twixt|the|throat|and|jaw
when|physic|could|not|find|the|remedi|nor|becaus
and|much|it|did|afflict|his|sick|peopl|here
he|of|almighti|god|obtaiu|d|by|earnest|pray|r
this|tumour|by|a|king|might|cur|would|be|alon|4ii
which|lie|an|heirloom|left|unto|the|english|throne
so|our|saint|edicard|here|for|england|s|general|use
our|countri|s|common|law|did|faith|produc
both|from|th|old|jjrilish|writ|and|from|the|saxon|tongu
of|forest|hill|and|flood|when|now|a|mighti|throng
for|audienc|cri|d|aloud|becaus|they|late|had|heard|four hundred and twenty-one
the|eleventh|song
eighty-one
that|some|high|cambrian|hill|the|wrehn|proud|dar|d
with|word|that|veri|much|had|stirr|d|his|rancor|spleen
where|though|clear|severn|set|her|princ|self|between
the|english|and|the|welsh|yet|could|not|make|them|ceas
here|jveever|as|a|flood|affect|god|peac|four hundred and twenty-six
his|place|of|speech|resign|and|to|the|muse|refer
the|hear|of|the|becaus|to|stickl|all|these|stir
vol|ii
illuste4ti0n
ow|are|you|newli|out|of|wale|return|into|eng
land|and|for|conveni|of|situat|imit
therein|the|ordinari|cours|of|chorographi|the
first|shire|eastward|from|dmhtgh|and|flint|last
sung|by|the|muse|cheshir|is|here|survey
six|of|our|great|english|blood|as|care
for|as|general|in|these|northern|part|of|england|the
gentri|is|from|ancient|time|left|preserv|in|continu
of|name|blood|and|place|so|most|particular|in|this
cheshir|and|the|sidioin|lancashir|which|out|of|their
numer|famili|of|the|same|name|with|their|chief
hous|and|lordship|hath|been|observ
nine|and|of|our|counti|jace|of|palatin|doth|hold
we|have|in|england|three|more|of|that|titl|lancast
durham|and|elg|and|until|later|time|jlexamshir|in|the
western|part|of|nmihumherland|was|so|reput|ifilliani
the|conqueror|first|creat|one|hugh|ivolf|a|nwman|count
falatin|of|chester|and|gave|the|earldom|to|hold|as|freeli
camden|in|cornav|et|brigant
stat|fourteen|eliz|cap|thirteen
the|elevextii|song|eighty-three
as|the|king|held|his|crown|by|this|supremaci|of|liberti|he
made|to|himself|baron|which|might|assist|him|in|council
and|had|their|court|and|cogniz|of|plea|in|such|sort
regard|the|earldom|as|other|baron|the|crown|ego
come|hugo|et|mei|baron|cnnfirmavhnus|isfa|omnia|is|sub
scribe|to|a|charter|mdierebi|he|found|the|monasteri|of
s|jverhurg|there|for|the|name|of|falatin|know|that|in
ancient|time|under|the|emperor|of|declin|born|tiie
titl|of|count|palatin|was|but|so|that|ib|extend|first
onli|to|him|which|had|care|of|the|household|and|imperi
revenu|which|is|now|so|sait|jfeseucbech|i|afiirm|it
not|as|the|marshal|in|other|court|but|was|also|commu
nicat|by|that|honorari|attribut|of|gomitiva|dignita|to
mani|other|which|had|anyth|proportion|place|or
desert|as|the|code|teacheth|xis|in|later|time|both|in
germani|as|you|see|in|the|palgrav|of|bhine|in|franc
which|the|earldom|of|cliamjxign|show|long|time|sinc|in
the|crown|yet|keep|a|distinct|palatin|govern|as
peter|pithou|hath|at|larg|publish|and|in|this|kingdom
such|were|hereditarili|honor|with|ib|as|be|near|the
princ|in|the|court|which|they|as|ve|call|the|palac
had|by|their|statecarriag|gain|full|opinion|of|their
worth|and|abil|in|govern|by|deleg|jdower|of|ter
ritori|to|them|commit|and|hereaft|titl|coimt|cle
palai|as|our|law|annal|call|them|if|you|desir|more
particular|of|the|power|and|great|state|of|this|palatin
earldom|i|had|rather|for|a|special|reason|send|you|to|the
marriag|of|jlen|iii|and|queen|ellanor|in|matthew|pari
where|john|scot|then|earl|of|chester|bare|befor|the|king
s|edward|s|sword|call|curtcin|wliich|the|princ|at
i|earl|jfujh|and|my|baron|have|confirm|all|this
one|zero|de|offic|cora|sac|palat|v|euseb|de|vit|constantin|s|et
cod|lib|twelve|in|paratit|c|one|tit|thirty-four
livr|one|des|comt|de|champagn|et|brie|de|palatinoriim
nostrorum|nomin|yarisbur|policrat|six|cap|ig|efc|epist|two|s
c2
eighty-four|polyolbiok
coron|of|henri|iv|is|record|to|hare|done|as|duke
of|lancast|and|avisli|you|to|examin|the|passag|there
with|what|bractoti|hath|of|earl|and|our|yearbook|of
the|iliyh|constabl|of|england|than|here|ofter|it|myself
to|add|the|royalti|of|the|earldom|as|court|offic
franchis|form|of|proceed|even|as|at|westminst|or
the|diminut|of|it|larg|liberti|by|the|statut|of|re
sumption|were|to|troubl|you|with|a|harsh|digress
thirty-one|our|leopard|they|so|long|and|brave|did|advanc
he|well|call|the|coat|of|england|leopard|neither|can
you|just|object|the|common|blazon|of|it|by|name|of
lion|or|that|assert|of|pohjdor|s|ignor|tell|us
that|the|cuncjueror|bare|three|fkurshl|and|three|lion
as|quarter|for|one|coat|which|hath|been|and|is|as|all
men|know|at|this|present|born|in|our|sovereign|s|arm|for
franc|and|england|and|so|that|the|quarter|of|the
fleur|was|not|at|all|until|ed|iii|to|publish|his|titl|and
gain|the|flemish|forc|as|you|have|it|in|froissart|baretli
french|arm|be|then|azur|semi|with|fleursd|and
were|afterward|contract|to|three|in|time|of|hen|v|by
charl|vi|becaus|he|would|bear|differ|from|the|english
king|who|notwithstand|present|second|the|chang
to|this|hour|continu|nor|could|that|italian|have|fallen
into|ani|error|more|palpabl|and|in|a|profess|antiquari
so|ridicul|but|to|prove|them|ancient|leopard|misit
ergo|saith|mattjunn|pari|hnpcratur|that|is|freder|ii
itegi|anglorum|tres|leopardo|in|signum|itegali|clypei|in
quo|tres|leopard|i|transeunt|fgurantur|in|a|ms|of
archiv|in|tur|lond|iam|ver6|et|typi|commiss|apud|crompt
jurisdict|cur|de|acq|rer|dom|cap|sixteen|three
zero|joi|eight|kclaway|et|v|brook|tit|prerogat|thirty-one
twenty-seven|ihn|eight|cap|twenty-four|a|gross|error|of|pohjdor
v|stat|fourteen|a|iii|seven|nineteen|y|j|three
the|einncror|sent|to|lien|iii|three|leopard|as|allud|to
the|arm|of|en|jluud
the|eleventh|song|eighty-five
gowef|confessio|amanti|which|the|print|book|have
not
ad|laiulem|christ|i|quern|hi|virgo|pcpcristi
sit|laus|richardi|queiii|sceitra|cokuit|leopardi
and|edicard|iv|grant|to|lew|of|bruge|earl|of|jvin
chestcr|that|he|should|bear|d|azur|a|dix|muscl|enarm
duii|canton|de|nostr|propr|ami|dengleterr|cestassacoir
de|goid|ung|leopard|passant|dor|arm|dazur|as|the
patent|speak|and|hkewis|he7i|vi|to|king|s|colleg|in
cambridg|gave|a|coat|armour|three|rose|and|summo
scuti|partitum|principal|de|azoreo|cum|francorumflor|dequ
eubeo|cum|peditant|leopardo|and|call|them|parcelloi|armo
rum|qum|nobi|in|regni|angvm|et|francic|jure|debentur|regi
i|know|it|is|otherwis|now|receiv|but|withal|that
princ|be|suprem|judg|of|honor|and|nobil|may
arbitrarili|chang|their|arm|in|name|and|natur|as|was
done|upon|return|out|of|the|holi|war|in|godfreij|of
bohgn|s|time|and|it|seem|it|hath|been|taken|indiffer
whether|you|call|them|the|one|or|other|both|foi|similitud
of|delinea|and|compostur|as|in|the|bear|of|nor
onandg|the|counti|of|zutplien|and|such|more|be|bla
zone|in|hierom|de|bara|and|other|french|herald|lion
leopard|and|for|that|even|under|this|hen|yi|a|great
student|in|heraldri|and|a|writer|of|that|kind|make|the
access|of|the|lion|of|guienn|to|the|coat|of|nornunulg
which|was|by|hen|ii|his|marriag|with|queen|elianor
divorc|from|lew|of|franc|to|be|the|first|three|lion
born|by|the|english|king
four|three|caerlegion|youhilst|proud|rome|lier|conquest|here|did|liojd
you|have|larg|in|that|our|most|learn|antiquari|the
one|pat|twelve|ed|four|part|one|memb|twelve
two|pat|twenty-seven|six|num|four|pout|heuter|de|yet|belgio|two
kichol|uptou|de|ke|militari|lib|three
eighty-six|rolyolbion
becaus|of|this|name|from|the|tent|of|roman|legion|there
about|vespasian|s|time|i|will|onli|note|that|lelaml|hath
long|sinc|found|fault|with|jfiuium|of|malmesburif|for
affirm|it|so|call|qubd|ihi|emer|legionum|julianarum
reseder|wherea|it|is|plain|that|julius|ccesar|never|came
near|this|territori|perhap|by|julius|he|meant|agricola
then|lieuten|here|so|name|and|then|is|the|imputa
tion|laid|on|that|best|of|the|monk|unjust|to|help|it|with
read|milifariuui|for|jvliananmi|as|the|print|book|pre
tend|i|find|not|suffici|warrant|in|respect|that|my
ms|veri|ancient|as|near|malmeshuri|time|as|it|seem
may|be|and|heretofor|belong|to|the|priori|of|s|augus
tine|s|in|canterburi|evid|persuad|the|contrari
fifty|the|fmircss|upon|dee
at|this|day|in|british|she|is|call|c|iir|lliicoti|ar|ijoiii
db|ie|the|citij|of|legion|upon|the|river|dee|some|vulgar
antiquari|have|refer|the|name|of|leon|to|a|giant
builder|of|it|i|nor|they|know|not|who|or|when|he|live
but|inde|ridicul|they|took|3lron|itlniirt|for|king
leon|the|great|to|whom|the|author|allud|present
sixty-four|but|in|himself|therebi|doth|holi|retain
he|compar|it|with|dee|s|titl|present|which|hath|it
reason|given|befor|to|the|seventh|soiig|jvever|by|reason
of|the|saltpit|at|nortlncich|nantwich|and|jmiddkwich|all
on|his|bank|hath|this|attribut|and|that|of|the|seagod
suit|to|him|and|kind|entertain|for|his|skill|in|physic
and|propheci|justifi|in|general|as|well|as|to|make
irtjplion|their|surgeon|which|our|excel|spenser|hath
done|and|in|particular|becaus|upon|the|most|respect|and
in|beva|ad|cyg|can|not|jje|pontiticib|lib|four
becaus|tlie|om|sohlicr|of|julius|his|legion|resid|there
conjeetiua|in|malniesljuriensem
llitiuf|llaiid|in|dreviario|f|a|great|legion
the|eleventh|song|eighty-seven
divin|honor|name|of|salt|of|which|if|you|observ|it
use|in|all|sacrific|by|express|command|of|the|true
god|the|rsi|nso|in|holi|writ|the|religion|of|the|salt
set|first|and|last|taken|away|as|a|symbol|of|perpetu
friendship|that|in|horner|lidaai|six|axog|diioio|the|titl|of
ayvirmx|given|it|by|lycophron|and|passag|of|the|ocean|s
medicin|epithet|becaus|of|his|salt|you|shall|see
appar|and|apt|testimoni
one hundred and seventy-four|from|woden|hy|which|name|they|stylid|mercuri
of|the|briton|descent|from|jove|if|you|rememb|but
jnea|son|to|anchis|and|venus|with|her|deriv|of
blood|from|jiqjit|s|parent|suffici|declar|will|offer
itself|for|this|of|ifoden|see|somewhat|to|the|third
song|to|what|you|read|there|i|here|more|fit|add|this
woden|in|saxon|genealog|is|ascend|to|as|the|chief
ancestor|of|their|most|royal|progeni|so|you|may|see|in
nennius|bede|ethelwerd|florenc|of|jvorcest|an|anoaymus
de|rerjali|prosapid|huntingdon|and|horeden|yet|in|such
sort|that|in|some|of|them|they|go|beyond|him|through
frithwald|frealaf|frlthulf|fin|godtdph|getcc|and|other
to|seth|but|with|so|much|uncertainti|that|i|imagin
mani|of|their|descent|were|just|as|true|as|the|theogoni|in
hcslod|apouodom|or|that|of|prester|john|s|sometim|de
rive|himself|veri|near|from|the|loin|of|salomon|df
this|ivoden|besid|my|author|name|special|mention
is|found|in|paul|warnfr|who|make|frea|his|wife|other
call|her|fricco|and|by|her|understand|venus|and|adam|of
breme|wliich|describ|him|as|3iar|but|in|geffrey|of|mou
levit|two|comm|thirteen|et|num|eighteen|salt|of|the|coven
ciel|ilhojigin|antiq|lect|twelve|cap|one|vid|plutarch|symijo|e
cap|ten|iliad|t|vid|lip|saturu|one|cap|two
t|he|sprinkl|it|with|divin|salt|a|cleanser
in|cassandra|gael|ant|lect|you|cap|twenty-two
daniian|a|roe|de|morib|ethiupum
de|luugobard|l|cap|s|iiist|eccleaiast|lib|four|cap|ih
eighty-eight|polyolbion
mouth|and|florucrjus|in|hengisf|own|person|he|is|affirm
the|same|with|mercuri|who|by|tacitus|report|was|their
chief|deiti|and|that|also|is|warrant|in|the|denomin
of|our|jvodensday|accord|to|the|dutch|siietolintstlftigh
for|the|fourth|day|of|the|week|titl|by|the|ancient|plane
tari|account|wit|name|of|mercuri|if|that|allus|in|the
illustr|of|the|third|song|to|merc|allow|it|him|not
tlien|take|the|other|first|taught|me|by|lipsius|fetch
jfochin|from|slisllott|or|sutn|which|is|to|gain|and|so|make
his|name|ifondan|express|in|that|sens|the|self|name
effjta|xsbuiog|use|by|the|greek|but|without|this|in
juiri|you|understand|the|author
one hundred and seventy-eight|here|put|the|german|name|upon|the|week|day
from|their|sunnan|for|the|sun|monan|for|the|moon
tuisco|or|tuisto|of|whom|see|to|the|fourth|song|for|mar
woden|for|mercuri|thor|for|jupit|fre|frie|or|frlgo|for
venus|sceturn|for|saturn|they|style|their|day|sunnan
hciej|monanhsej|tuijconsbasj|pobenfbsej|opj|b|e5|ppij
biej|sa|tepnfboej|thenc|came|our|day|now|use|sunday
munday|tuesday|jvodensday|thursday|friday|satiirday
which|planetari|account|was|veri|ancient|among|the
yegyptian|have|much|hebrew|disciplin|but|so|super
stitious|that|be|great|astronom|and|veri|observ
of|mysteri|produc|out|of|umber|and|quantiti|they
l|egan|on|the|jewish|sabbath|and|impos|the|name|of
saturn|on|the|next|the|sun|then|the|moon|as|we|now
reckon|omit|two|planet|in|everi|nomin|as|you
easili|conceiv|it|one|might|seek|yet|miss|the|reason|of
that|form|but|noth|give|satisfact|equal|to|that|of
allpenetr|joseph|scalig|whose|intend|reason|for|it
ad|tacit|oerm|not|thirty-two|liician|in|tinion
mirrurii|presid|oi|ain|dion|hist|itom|x
e|eniendat|1emj|one|eundcm|de|hiic|re|prolegoui|et|lib|seven
doctorem|merito|agnoscimus
the|eleventh|song
eighty-nine
is|thus|in|a|circl|describ|an|heptagon|and|equilater
figur|from|whose|everi|side|shall|fall|equilater|triangl
and|their|angl|respect|on|the|corner|of|the|inscrib
figur|which|are|note|with
the|planet|after|their|not|in
terrupt|order|at|the|right
side|of|ani|of|the|base|begin
your|account|from|that|to|the
opposit|note|planet|thenc
to|his|opposit|and|so|shall
you|find|a|continu|cours|in
that|order|ground|perhap
among|the|ancient|upon
mysteri|of|number|and|in
terchanij
govern
by
those|superior|bodi|over|this|habit|orb|which|some
have|sweat|at|in|inquiri|of|proport|music|distanc
and|refer|it|to|planetari|hour|wherea|they|the|veri
name|of|hour|for|a|twentyfourth|part|of|a|day|be|un
usual|till|about|the|peloponnesiac|war|had|their|origin|of
later|time|than|this|hebdomad|account|whenc|the|hour
from|the|morn|of|everi|day|had|his|breed|and|not|the
other|from|this|as|pretend|and|vulgar|astrolog|receiv
in|supposit|at|last|by|condantin|the|great|and|pope
sylvest|the|name|of|sunday|was|turn|into|the|lord
day|as|it|is|style|dominicus|et|kvoiaxri|of|saturday|into
the|sabbath|and|the|rest|not|long|afterward|name|accord
ing|to|their|numer|order|as|the|first|second|or|third
feria|that|is|holiday|therebi|keep|the|remembr|of
easterweek|the|begin|of|tlie|ecclesiast|year|which
was|kept|everi|day|holi|for|sunday|munday|tuesday
you|may|note|here|that|ccesar|was|deceiv|in|tell|us
one|nicephor|callist|eccl|hist|k|cap|fit|polyd|invent|ker
six|cap|five|coiumeut|gallic|zero
ninety|polyolbiox
the|german|worship|no|other|god|but|cpao|cermmt
et|quorum|opihus|aperth|jiivantur|solem|vulcanum|and
lunam|rellquus|ne|famd|quidem|accepiss|for|you|see|more
than|those|thus|honour|by|them|as|also|they|had|their
eofceji|monach|for|api|ll|dedic|to|some|ador|power
of|that|name|but|blame|him|not|for|the|discoveri|of|tlie
northern|part|was|but|in|weakest|infanc|when|he|de
liver|it
one hundred and ninety-seven|good|ethelbert|of|kent|first|christn|english|king
about|the|year|six hundred|christian|was|receiv|among|the
saxon|this|etkclhcrt|be|first|induc|to|tast|that|hap
piness|by|berta|his|queen|a|christian|and|daughter|to|ihi
peric|or|lothar|the|ii|king|of|franc|was|afterward|bap
tize|by|augustin|a|monk|sent|hither|with|other|workmen
for|such|a|harvest|by|pope|gregori|the|i|zealous|be
move|to|convers|of|the|english|nation|so|that|after
the|first|come|of|hengist|they|had|live|here|one|hundr
and|fifti|year|by|the|common|account|without|tinctur|of
true|religion|nor|did|the|briton|who|had|long|befor|as
you|see|to|the|eiglith|song|receiv|it|at|all|impart|it|by
instruct|which|gilda|imput|to|them|for|merit|of
divin|reveng|jfiiit|of|basingstok|i|must|cite|his|name
you|would|laugh|at|me|if|i|affirm|it|refer|to|kent|s
pagan|and|british|christianitg|befor|this|convers|the
origin|of|our|vulgar|byword|nor|in|christeiulom|nor|in
kent
two hundred and seven|fuu|ahstin|from|fiesh|for|forti|day|hegan
began|it|here|so|understand|him|for|plain|that|fast
ingtim|was|long|befor|in|other|church|as|ajjpear|in
whom|thoy|see|and|have|daili|use|of|as|the|sun|moon|and
the|f|qf|iji|name|of|vulcan|jjed|lib|de|temi|oribus
hist|not|four|three|five hundred and forty
the|eleventh|song|ninety-one
the|decre|epistl|of|pope|tehsphorus|constitut|that
the|clergi|should|fast|from|qulupiageshikc|that|is|shrwe
sundaij|to|easter|wherea|the|laiti|and|they|both|were
befor|bound|but|to|six|week|account|as|now|from|the
first|sunday|in|lent|so|that|even|from|the|first|of|chris
tianiti|for|remembr|of|our|saviour|it|seem|it|hath
been|observ|although|i|know|it|hath|been|refer|to
telesijhoni|as|hrst|author|he|die|in|one hundred and forty|of|christ|but
if|you|compar|this|of|him|with|that|of|pope|mekhiad
some|hundr|and|seventi|year|after|take|away|the
fast|upon|sunday|and|thursday|you|will|lose|therein
forti|day|and|the|common|name|of|qiuidragesim|but
again|lind|it|thus|s|gregori|after|both|these|make|lent
to|be|so|kept|that|yet|no|fast|be|upon|sunday|becaus
among|other|reason|he|would|have|it|as|the|tenth|of
time|consecr|to|god|in|prayer|and|abstin|and|the
canonist|how|just|i|argu|not|put|it|in|their|divis
of|person|tith|then|in|this|form|after|the|except
calcul|out|his|number|from|the|first|sunday|in|lent
to|easier|are|six|week|that|is|fortytwo|day|whenc
six|sunday|subtract|remain|thirtysix|which|fraction
avoid|is|the|quotient|of|three|hundr|and|sixtyf
be|the|number|of|the|common|year|divid|by|ten|but
see|that|holi|number|as|he|call|it|of|forti|which|our
saviour|honour|with|his|fast|is|by|this|reckon|ex
clude|he|add|to|the|first|week|the|four|last|day|of|the
quinquagesirim|that|is|a|sli|wednesday|thursday|friday|and
saturday|so|keep|both|his|conceit|of|tith|and|also
observ|of|that|number|which|we|rememb|onli|not
abl|to|imit|in|our|assay|abstin|for|proof|of
one|dist|four|c|four|statuimus|et|il|i|l|d|ambrosia
two|ita|etiaux|barouius|sod|et|viilc|eusebii|chrouic|in|sixto|one
three|dist|four|de|cousecrat|o|fourteen|iciuuiuiu
one hundred and eleven|hdinil|jjist|do|cousecrat|c|one|five
five|kebuutruct|de|dwim|ciucst|three|uum|thirty-one
ninety-two|polyolbion
this|in|erconbert|both|ede|and|mahneshari|besid|tlieir
later|follow|are|wit|their|saxon|name|near|our
was|lenjcceupaejcen|as|the|other|four|fast|ymbpeu
fipjxen
two hundred and ten|so|ella|come|in|soon|from|the|briton|won
near|forti|year|after|the|saxon|first|arriv|lla|of
the|same|nation|with|his|son|pleuc|or|plete|cimen
and|cissa|land|at|cimenshor|in|the|now|sussex|it|is|sup
jios|to|be|near|the|ivitt|by|chichest|and|have
his|forc|increas|by|suppli|after|much|bloodsh|twixt
him|and|the|briton|and|long|sieg|of|the|citi|andr
ceaster|now|neioenden|in|kent|as|learn|camden|conjectur
got|suprem|dominion|of|those|southern|part|with|titl|of
king|of|sussex|whose|son|and|successor|cissn|s|name|is|yet
there|left|in|ciijaceajxeji|for|chichest|and|in|a|hill|en
circl|with|a|deep|trench|for|militari|defenc|call|ciss
huri|by|offington|the|author|fit|begin|with|him|after
the|kentish|for|he|was|the|first|that|made|the|number|of
the|saxon|king|plural|by|plant|and|here|reign|over
the|south|saxon|and|as|one|was|alway|in|the|heptarchi
which|had|titl|of|first|or|chief|king|of|the|angl|and
saxon|so|this|lla|not|onli|was|honour|with|it|but
also|the|prerog|by|prioriti|of|time|in|first|enjoin
it|befor|all|other|princ|of|his|nation|but|his|dominion
afterward|was|for|the|most|part|still|under|the|kentish|and
jfest|saxon|king
two hundred and ten|saint|wilfrid|sent|from|york|into|his|realm|receiv
this|jfilfrid|archbishop|of|york|expel|that|see|by
canut|leg|sixteen
ex|antiq|hartil|eccl|selesen|ap|camden
so|is|it|call|in|floreut|wigorn|page|three hundred and thirty-one
kingdom|of|smotex
ethfhvcrd|hist|three|cap|two|bed|hist|two|cap|five
the|eleventh|song|ninety-three
egfrkl|king|of|northumberland|was|kind|receiv|by
edilwahh|otherwis|ethelwalch|be|befor|christen
through|religi|persuas|of|his|godfath|wulplur|king
of|mercland|and|convert|the|smth|saxon|to|the|gospel
he|endow|this|jfilfrid|with|selsey|a|cherrones|in|sussex
and|was|so|founder|of|a|bishopr|afterward|translat
under|the|norman|conqueror|to|chichest|whose|cathedr
church|in|public|monument|honour|the|name|of|ceduvuii
of|whom|see|to|the|ninth|song|king|of|west|sex|for|her
first|creator|but|the|reason|of|that|was|rather|becaus
cedivalla|after|death|of|edilwalch|whom|he|slew|so
honour|jfilfrid|ut|magistrum|et|domhium|omni|pro
vincic|eum|prafecit|nihil|in|totd|provincid|sine|illius|assenm
faciendum|arbitratus|whereupon|it|was|as|it|seem|thought
fit|accord|to|cours|of|yield|with|the|sway|of|fortun
to|forget|edilwalch|and|acknowledg|cedwalla|then|a
pagan|for|first|patron|of|that|episcop|digniti|it|is
report|that|three|year|befor|this|general|receipt|there
of|christ|s|profess|continu|without|rain|insomuch
that|famin|and|her|companion|pestil|so|vex|the
provinc|that|in|multitud|of|forti|or|fifti|at|a|time|they
use|hand|in|hand|to|end|their|miseri|in|the|swallow
wave|of|their|neighbour|ocean|but|that|all|ceas
upon|jfilfrid|s|preach|who|taught|them|also|first|if
henri|of|riintingdon|teach|deceiv|me|not|to|catch|all
manner|of|fish|be|befor|skill|onli|in|take|of|eel
i|know|some|make|eadbert|abbot|of|the|monasteri|in
selseij|under|king|ine|first|bishop|there|ad|that|be
fore|his|time|the|provinc|was|subject|to|jfinchest|but
that|right|understood|discord|not|that|is|if|you|refer
one|malniesb|de|gest|pontifi|three
tliat|he|commit|the|suprem|govern|of|that|provinc|to
him
sussex|men|taught|to|catch|fish
matth|westmonastericnsi
ninety-four|polyolbion
it|to|instaur|of|what|was|discontinu|by|jvufri
return|to|his|archbishopr
26s|adopt|for|his|heir|young|edmund
penda|king|of|merdand|had|slain|sigebert|or|sebert|and
anna|king|of|eastangl|and|so|in|dominion|might|be
said|to|have|possess|that|kingdom|but|anna|had|diver
successor|of|his|blood|of|whom|ethclhirth|was|traitor
slain|in|a|plot|dissembl|by|offa|king|of|merdand|and
this|part|of|the|heptarchi|confound|in|the|mercian
crown|then|did|offa|adopt|this|s|edmvnd|a|saxon|into
name|of|successor|in|that|kingdom|which|he|had|not|long
enjoy|but|that|through|barbar|cruelti|chiefli|of|one
ilingiiar|a|dane|fohdor|will|need|have|his|name|agner
he|was|with|miser|tortur|martjt|upon|the|lot|of
novemb|wliither|his|canon|directeth|us|for|holi
memori|of|him
three hundred and five|and|slew|a|thousand|ionk|as|they|devonili|jjrayd
you|may|add|two|hundr|to|the|author|s|number
this|ethelfrid|or|edilfrid|king|of|korthumherland|aspir
to|increas|his|territori|made|war|against|the|border
briton|but|as|he|was|in|the|field|by|chester|near|the|on
set|he|saw|with|wonder|a|multitud|of|monk|assembl
in|a|place|by|somewhat|secur|j|demand|the|becaus|and
was|soon|inform|that|they|were|there|readi|to|assist|his
enemi|sword|vdth|their|devout|orison|and|had|one
call|brocmail|profess|their|defenc|from|the|english
forc|the|king|no|sooner|heard|this|but|ergo|saith
he|be|a|heathen|si|adrersus|nos|ad|dominum|sumn
daniant|two|rofccto|ei|ipsi|quamvi|arma|non|ferant|contra|nos
jmgiiant|qui|adversi|nos|im2|recationihus|persequuntur|pre
one|eight hundred and seventy
if|they|pray|to|their|god|against|us|then|plain|they|fight
agaiuiit|us
the|eleventh|song|ninety-five
sentli|command|tlieir|spoil|whic|so|was|perform|by
his|soldier|that|twelv|hundr|were|in|their|devot
put|to|the|sword|a|strang|slaughter|of|religi|person
at|one|time|and|place|but|not|so|strang|as|their|whole
number|in|this|one|monasteri|which|was|two|thousand|one
hundr|not|such|idl|lubber|sot|as|later|time|pester
the|world|withal|truli|pictur|in|that|descript|of|their
charact|sloth
2jktth|thjo|slttttb|cone
f|must|stt|sailj|the|rggc|or|rise|i|must|ncrlis|nap
man|not|stontj|nt|5touj|f|nr|boithout|mi|stoic|feneel
socic|ijrought|abcu|but|tf|mg|taknljc|tt|maue
houljj|nt|ring|tjo|mr|rise|or|jj|lucr|ri|c|to|tiiur
t|began|benedicit|baith|a|belfe|anti|his|brcst|hnoltellf
sntj|rasfeleij|antj|rorctr|anti|rut|at|the|last
if|shoultj|tine|bo|this|tjaie|me|inst|not|to|lohe
i|can|not|jcrfitln|mn|pater|nost|as|the|i3riest|it|singeth
53ut|i|can|rime|of|eobin|hod|anu|randal|of|chester
23ut|of|our|orij|or|our|ilatjn|i|lern|noth|at|all
am|occu|icti|cberi|ijan|holn|ijaw|anu|other
tljltith|xqlt|talc|at|the|llc|anu|other|hjhile|in|church
cous|ain|anti|his|passion|full|seltrc|thinh|f|thereon
i|bisitetf|nebcr|fcblemcn|ne|fettrcu|folh|in|jjittc
i|habe|icber|here|an|lilarlotr|or|a|somcr|game
r|icas|to|laug|at|antj|bilw|mn|neighbour
tit|all|that|cbcr|jlark|maue|math|lohn|antj|luca
slnlj|stgilr|antj|fast|tiaic|all|these|let|ass
slntj|lie|in|bctj|in|ient|anij|mi|ilcmman|in|mine|arm
i|habe|ben|priest|anu|iarson|jiass|thnrtie|bjinter
set|can|nether|ol|fe|ne|sing|ne|saint|libe|reau
but|can|ftnu|in|a|feilu|or|in|a|furlong|an|hare
isett|then|i|beatus|vir|r|in|beati|omn
rob|de|lafiglauil|sive|joann|malvern|pass|five
ninety-six|polyolbion
not|such|were|those|bangor|monk|but|they|omn|de
lahor|mammm|suarum|viver|soleb|observ|here|the
differ|twixt|the|more|ancient|time|and|our|corrupt
neighbour|age|mhich|have|been|so|brand|and|not|un
just|with|dissembl|bestial|sensual|of|monast|pro
fession|that|in|the|univers|visit|under|hen|viii
everi|monasteri|afford|shame|discoveri|of|sodomit
and|incontin|friar|in|canterburi|priori|of|benedictin
nine|sodomit|in|battel|abbey|fifteen|and|in|mani|other
like|proport|larger|reckon|will|not|satisfi|if|you
account|their|wench|which|marri|and|singl|for|they
affect|that|varieti|suppli|the|want|of|their|counter
feit|solitari|so|that|hereupon|after|an|account|of
six|hundr|convent|of|monk|and|friar|with|mendi
cant|in|this|kingdom|when|time|endur|them|je|laisserai
saith|one|mainienard|au|ledeur|calcul|comuen|piir|le|moin
devomt|estr|de|jil|de|imtain|en|angleter|je|dl|seulement|fih
de|moin|et|de|putamesf|these|were|they|who|admir
all|for|ilehrew|or|greek|which|they|understood|not|and|had
at|least|as|mani|of|our|now|profess|formalist|latin
enough|to|make|such|a|speech|as|eahlai|hath|to|gargantua
for|pari|bell|and|call|for|their|vinum|cos|which|in|one
of|them|person|receiv|thus|from|a|nobl|poet|i
fac|extrb|mliil|hoc|extra|totum|sit|ojmtet
sobrih|enimjusth|atqu|jpih|potar|juhet|lex
vinum|imtificat|cor|homini|prcecipv|cos
chatia|sit|doniino|vinum|cos|inguit|habemus
how|my|reader|tast|this|i|know|not|therefor|i|will
all|live|of|handi|labour
h|stcphcu|eu|ieutroduct|au|trait|de|la|conform|etc|one
chap|twenty-one
t|i|leav|it|to|the|reader|to|guess|how|mani|bastard|the|monk
and|iriar|got|for|the|laiti
januari|duuz|isatyr|five
the|eleventh|song|ninety-seven
ing|quit|liim|and|add|onli|that|william|of|malmesbunj
grossli|err|in|affirm|that|this|bangor|is|turn|into|a
bishopr|but|pardon|him|for|he|live|in|his|cloister|and
perhap|was|deceiv|by|equivoc|of|name|there|be
in|caernarvaji|a|bishopr|of|the|same|titl|to|this|day
which|somebodi|later|hath|on|the|other|side|i|will|taken|for
this2
three hundred and fourteen|tfjio|reordainm|york|a|bishop|s|govern
for|in|the|british|time|it|had|a|metropolit|see|as|is
note|to|the|ninth|song|and|now|by|eclwin|convert|to
christian|disciplin|both|through|mean|of|his|wife|ethel
burg|daughter|to|ethelbert|king|of|kent|and|religi|per
suasion|of|god|s|minist|was|restor|to|the|former
digniti|and|paulinus|in|it|honour|with|name|of|arch
l|ishop|be|afterward|banish|that|provinc|and|made
bishop|of|bochest|which|some|have|ignor|made|him
befor
three hundred and twenty-one|nor|tjwse|that|in|the|stem|of|saxon|crida|came
most|of|our|chronolog|begin|the|mercian|raceroy
with|penda|but|henri|of|huntingdon|not|without|his
proof|and|follow|make|crida|grandfath|to|penda
first|in|that|kinsdom
o
three hundred and thirty-four|confirm|in|christ|s|helkf|by|tjtat|most|reverend|chad
this|jvulpher|son|to|penda|restor|to|his|father|s|king
dom|is|report|with|his|own|hand|to|have|slain|his|two
son|lpilphald|and|bufin|for|that|they|privili|withdrew
themselv|to|that|famous|s|chad|or|cedda|bishop|of
lichfield|for|instruct|in|the|christian|faith|and|all|this
one|in|hist|et|lib|four|de|pontiticib|in|dorcecestrensibus
ant|lib|aca|lem|er|europ|edit|ir|i|zero
ll|l|ert|de|simipham|in|hist|retroburgen|ap|camd|in
stafford|et|korthamptou|et|j|stovuium
vol|ii|seven
ninety-eight|polyolbion
is|suppos|to|be|done|where|the|now|stone|in|staffordshir
is|seat|hereupon|the|author|reli|but|the|credit|of
it|is|more|than|suspici|not|onli|for|that|in|classic
author|i|find|his|issu|onli|to|be|kenrcd|and|s|jferhurg
by|rmengild|daughter|to|erconhert|of|kent|but|withal
that|he|was|both|christian|and|a|great|benefactor|to|the
church|for|it|appear|by|consent|of|all|that|peada|weda
or|fenda|all|these|name|he|hath|eldest|son|of|the|first
ferula|first|receiv|in|middl|emjh|part|of|merdan|l|the
faith|and|was|baptiz|by|finnan|bishop|of|lindisfarn
after|whose|violent|death|in|spite|of|osici|king|of|northum
herlarul|lnmin|elba|and|edherth|gentlemen|of|power|in
mercland|salut|jvidplur|brother|to|feada|king|of|all
that|provinc|who|was|then|as|it|seem|by|florenc|of
worcest|and|bede|s|report|of|four|bishop|in|success
prefer|by|him|of|christian|name|but|howsoev|he
was|at|that|time|it|is|certain|that|in|the|second|or|third
year|of|his|reign|he|was|godfath|to|king|edilwalch|of
sussex|and|bestow|on|him|as|a|gift|in|token|of|that
spiritu|adopt|the|isl|of|wight|with|anoth|territori
in|west|saxoni|and|gave|also|to|s|cedda|made|by|con
sent|of|him|and|king|oswi|bishop|of|lindisfarnc|fifti
hide|of|land|a|hide|f|a|laonghdand|or|a|caru|i|hold
clear|equival|toward|foundat|of|a|monasteri
all|this|compar|and|his|life|in|our|monk|observ
it|is|that|now|call|nob|island|by|east|the|utmost|part|of
nordiumhtrland|whenc|the|bishopr|about|nine hundred and ninety-five|was|translat|to
durham
t|ita|enim|a|n|l|matth|pari|huntingdon|th|walsinghani
docemur|licet|aiii|one hundred|acri|alii|alit|detiniunt|cateriim|quod|nie
maximo|movet|et|abstju|hiusitation|in|banc|sententiam|pedibus|ire
cogit|en|tibi|ex|dumtaui|charta|an|nine|fifty-three|qui|terrr|partem|con
reclit|spjitfm|arntronim|tjvod|ainjlic|licit|ur|sfptevi|fiida|nee
immeniorem|hie|te|vcllcm|vocabuli|illius|apud|jur|con|nostro
liitjc|ft|gainc|quod|arvum|restibil|iuterpretari|haiit|ignorat
jjiipeudius|quiapiam
tbe|eleventh|song|ninety-nine
hard|endur|this|note|of|persecut|which|in|respect
of|his|foundership|of|peterborough|abbey|robert|of|su|aj_
ham|a|monk|there|report|it|or|those|from|whom|he|had
it|might|better|in|silenc|have|buri|it|or|rather|not|so
ungrat|feign|it|i|onli|find|one|thing|notabl|i|will
of|him|that|he|first|of|the|english|king|by|simoni
made|a|bishop|which|was|wine|of|london|as|malmesbiiri
is|author
three hundred and fifty|and|through|his|rule|the|church|from|tax|stronghj
freed
ethelbald|king|of|mercland|founder|of|croidand|abbey
in|lincolnshir|a|great|martial|and|religi|princ|in|a
synod|held|cuthbcrt|then|archbishop|of|canterburi|en
larg|ecclesiast|liberti|in|this|form|donationem|meam|me
vivent|concedo|ut|omnia|momisteria|et|ecclesic|regni|mei|a
publici|vectigalibus|operibus|et|omribus|absolvantur|nisi|in
structionibus|arcium|vel|pontium|quce|minquam|tdli|possunt
relaxari|g|he|discharg|all|monasteri|and|church
of|all|kind|of|tax|work|and|impost|except|such|as
were|for|build|of|fort|and|bridg|be|as|it|seem|the
law|was|then|not|releas|for|besid|the|author|of
this|statut|of|ethelbald|it|appear|frequent|in|charter|of
the|saxon|time|that|upon|endow|and|donat|to
church|with|largest|word|of|exempt|and|liberti|fiom
all|secular|charg|the|conclus|of|the|ilahenduin|was
excepti|isti|tribus|expedition|ponti|arcisv|const|ructionc
which|among|common|notari|or|scriven|was|so|avel
known|that|they|call|it|by|one|general|name|trinoda
necessita|f|as|out|of|cedwalla|s|charter|to|wilfrid|first
bishop|of|selsey|of|the|ianor|oipagenham|now|paghani
except|those|three|aid|in|war|menil|of|bridg|in|l
fort|vid|lliartani|hujusmodi|apiul|d|ed|cok|in|epiit|al|lib|zero
t|a|thieckuottcd|uccesa|gso
one hundred|polyolbion
in|sussex|i|have|seen|transcrib|whereupon|in|a|delib
rativ|concern|papal|exact|and|subject|of|church
live|held|under|hen|the|third|after|examin|of
ancient|king|indulg|to|the|clergi|it|was|found
tliat|non|adeb|libertuil|dederunt|hujusmodi|possession|quin
tria|sibi|reservar|semper|propter|puhlicam|regni|utiutatem
videlicet|expeditionem|ponti|et|arci|reparation|ml|refec
tion|ut|per|ea|resister|hostium|inrjirsionibus|although
by|word|of|a|statut|of|ethelnjpli|king|of|jfestsaxon|in
the|year|eight hundred and fifty-five|made|by|advic|both|of|laiti|and|spiritu
the|church|was|quit|also|of|those|three|commonwealth
caus|of|subsidi|but|enjoy|it|not|for|even|the|canon
themselv|subject|their|possess|to|these|servic|and
duti|and|upon|interpret|of|a|charter|made|by|henri
bcauderc|founder|of|the|priori|of|s|oswald|in|yorkshir
contain|word|of|immun|and|liberti|of|tenur|as
general|and|effectu|as|might|be|a|great|lawyer|long
sinc|affirm|that|yet|the|hous|was|not|freed|of|repair
bridg|and|causi|but|all|land|as|well|in|hand|of
clerk|as|lay|were|subject|to|particular|tenur|after
the|conquest|and|so|these|kind|of|charg|and|discharg
be|made|rather|feodal|as|bradoii|call|them|than|cr
sonal|use|of|them|in|charter|consequ|ceas|i|note
here|to|student|of|antiqu|that|where|the|print|in
gulph|say|this|was|done|by|ethclhald|in|the|third|year|of
his|reign|they|must|with|correct|make|it|the|twenti
tliird|as|is|without|scrupl|appar|in|the|date|of|the
synod|which|was|seven hundred and forty-five|of|our|saviour
j|tath|pari|pag|eight hundred and thirty-eight
they|alway|roscrtcil|those|that|so|tlici|might|the|better|be
furnish|agaiiist|the|enemi|invas
iregor|decret|tit|tie|i|mm|ecol|c|pervenit|two
knivet|forty-four|e|one|s|fol|two|a
de|ac|uir|nr|i|f|m|two|caj|ifi|g|eight
ijigulphus|ememlatus|maljm|sb|lib|de|gcst|pontif|one
the|eleventh|song
one hundred and one
three hundred and sixty|the|briton|had|inter|their|protomartyr|s|hone
in|that|univers|persecut|under|dioddian|and|he
culius|tlii|isl|gave|in|s|alhan|testimoni|of|christian
profess|even|to|his|last|breath|drawn|among|torment
ing|enemi|of|the|cross|his|death|be|the|first
martyr|as|the|author|here|call|him|that|this|countri
had|was|at|jferlamcest|ie|the|old|vendam|where|by
the|abbey|of|s|alban|was|afterward|erect
three hundred and seventy-nine|extirp|other|style|and|gave|it|england|name
look|back|to|the|last|note|on|the|first|song|thus|as
you|see|hath|the|muse|compendi|run|through|the
heptarchi|and|unit|it|in|name|and|empir|under|egb
king|of|westsaxon|after|whom|none|but|his|successor
had|absolut|power|in|their|kingdom|as|cours|of|stori
show|you|like|enough|i|imagin|that|as|yet|expectii
tion|of|the|reader|is|not|satisfi|in|these|seven|kingdom
their|begin|territori|and|first|cliristian|therefor
as|a|corollari|receiv|this|for|the|eye|s|more|facil|instruc
tion
began|in
first|receiv
the|faith|in
one|kent
the|now|l|hengist45g|iethelbert5d7
kent|from|whose|son|of|augustin
from|gregori|i
a
eleven|south|sex
i|hengist45g
from|whose|son
oisc|the|suc
ceed|king
were|call|oi
cing
ii|in|yella
about|one hundred and ninety-one
sussex|ii|in|yella|ii|edijwakh
surrey|about|one hundred and ninety-one|ggl|and|the
whole|countri
convert|by
jfilfrid|six hundred and seventy-nine
see|the|author|in|the|sixteenth|song|too|aut|circit
ann|circa|eight hundred|see|the|sixteenth|song
i|follow|here|the|ordinari|chronolog|of|our|monk
one hundred and two
polyolbiox
berjan|in
flrf|receiv
tlw|faith|in
one
iii|jtest
sex
iv|n|rr
thumher
lund
v|ed
sex
cormval
devonshir
dorset
somerset
jnitmi
southamp
ton
berkshir
lancast
york
durham
westmer
land
northum
herland
and|the
neighbour
ing|terri
tori|to
edinburgh
frith
vvliither
from|tine
was|the
name|of
bernidand
and|what
hiy|on|this
side|tine
call|de|ir
eland
i|essex
middlesex
i|purtofi
reford
iii|certic|five hundred and nineteen
whose|grand
father|was|ge
m|and|thenc
his|peopl|and
poster|call
gewis
iv|ida|five hundred and forty-seven
take|all|ber
nidand|a|s|yelia
twelv|year
after|began|in
deirland|but
both|kingdom
soon|were|con
found|in|one
iii|kinegil
six hundred and thirty-five|baptiz
by|birin|first
bishop|of|dor
chester|in|ox
fordshir
iv|edwin|six hundred and twenty-five
christen|by
paidin|first
archbishop|in
the|s|lro|i|time
of|york
v|sleda|after|v|sehert|six hundred and four
some|other|dip|in|holi
say|in|erchin|tinctur|by
win|befor|him|j|meuitus|first
about|five|eighty|both|bishop|of|lon
uncertain|and
their|succ
sor
don
ie|hertford|ed
the|elevext|song
one hundred and three
began|in
first|receiv
the|faith|in
are
i
vi|est
angl
vii
mercland
norfolk
suffolk
cambridg
shire
vaxtoi|eli
glocest
hereford
worcest
warwick
leicest
rutland
northamp
ton
lincoln
hunt
don
bedfmd
buck
ham
oxford
stafford
derbi
salop
nottingham
chester
the|nort
ern|part|of
hereford
but|in
these|the
inhabit
ant|of|then
inland
were|call
middl
engl|and
the|iler
vi|redicald
about|six hundred|but
sometalkof|one
viiffa|whenc
these|king
were|call
vuf|to|be
author|of|it
near|thirti
year|befor
vii|inpenda
sixty-two|g|other
will|in|crida
some|forti|be
fore
vi|eorpicald
six hundred and thirty-two|although
reclwcdd|were
christen|for
he|soon|fell|to
apostasi|by
persuas|of
his|wife|and|in
the|same
chapel|made
one|altar|to
christ|anoth
to|the|devil
vii|peada
king|of|midl
engl|six hundred and fifty-three
baptiz|by
finna|bishop
of|liudisfarn
but|enlarg
the|profess
of|it|in|vulpher
next|king
there
ie|hertford
one hundred and four
polyolbion
began|in
first|receiv
the|faith|in
a
ciav|divi
ded|into
name|of
their|local
quarter
perhap|as|good|author|may|be|given|against|some|of
my|propos|chronolog|as|i|can|justifi|myself|with|but
although|so|yet|i|am|therefor|freed|of|error|becaus|our
old|monk|exceed|in|this|kind|corrupt|or|defici
afford|noth|abl|to|rectifi|i|know|the|fastangl|by
both|ancient|and|later|author|begin|abov|one|hundr
year|befor|but|if|with|synchron|you|examin|it|it|will
be|found|most|absurd|for|see|it|is|affirm|expressli
that|redwald|was|slain|by|ethejfrkl|king|of|noiikumherkmd
and|be|plain|by|bede|take|his|stori|togeth|and|reli
not|upon|syllabl|and|fals|print|copi|that|it|must
need|be|near|six hundred|for|fdivin|succeed|mhelfrid|and|that
uffa|was|some|thirti|year|befor|what|calcul|will
cast|this|into|less|than|five|hundr|year|after|christ
forget|not|if|you|desir|accur|time|my|admonit|to
the|fourth|song|of|the|twentytwo|year|error|upon|the
dionysian|account|especi|in|the|begin|of|the|king
dom|becaus|they|are|for|the|most|part|reckon|in|old
monk|from|the|come|of|the|saxon|where|you|find
differ|name|from|these|attribut|it|to|misread|old
copi|by|such|as|have|publish|carpemrald|for|eorpen
wald|or|earpwajd|penda|also|perhap|for|wcnda|mis
take|the|saxon|p|for|our|p|and|other|such|variabl|both
written|and|print|how|in|time|they|success|came
eccl|hist|two|cap|nine|ubi|legcndum|sexcentesimo|vice|rov|quin
genttsimo
the|eleventh|song|one hundred and five
under|the|westsaxon|rule|i|must|not|tell|you|unless|i
should|untim|put|on|the|person|of|an|historian|our
common|annal|manifest|it|but|know|here|that|although
seven|were|yet|but|five|had|ani|long|continu|of|their
supremaci
wit|a|on|tho|in|thtr|jjotocr|tiio|thtt|faocr|so|rtuc
tvit|hingtlom|matt|iw|engelond|auli|suthc|but|biuf
ehe|ite|of|northomberlond|anlj|oe|eastangl|also
f|kent|anu|o|westsex|antj|of|the|march|therto
as|robert|of|glocest|accord|to|truth|of|stori|hath|it
for|estsex|and|soiuhsex|were|not|long|after|their|begin
as|it|were|annex|to|their|rule|neighbour|princ
3s8|a|nation|from|their|first|lent|natur|to|spoil
inde|so|were|univers|the|german|out|of|whom
our|saxon|as|tacitus|relat|to|us|nee|arar|terram|aut|ex
sjjectar|annum|tarn|facilh|persuaseri|quam|vocar|hast|et|vul
nera|mereri|pigrum|quinimb|et|iner|videtur|sudor|acquirer
quod|2ossi|sanguin|parar|f|and|more|of|that|natur|we
read|in|him
four hundred|of|famous|cambridg|first
about|the|year|six hundred and thirty|sigehert|after|death|of|eorjnvnld
return|out|of|franc|whither|his|father|bedivald|had
banish|him|and|receiv|the|eastangl|crown|assist
by|fidlx|a|bnrgognon|and|first|bishop|of|dunmch|then
call|dunmoc|in|suffolk|desir|to|imit|what|he|had
seen|observ|in|franc|for|the|common|good|inst|it|nit
scholaiii|read|it|schola|if|you|will|as|some|do|i|see|no
afterward
you|could|not|so|easili|persuad|them|to|husbandri|as|to|mar
tial|conlliit|nor|thought|they|it|better|than|sloth|to|get|that|by
swuftt|whiyh|they|miyht|have|by|blood
one hundred and six|polyolbion
consequ|of|worth|in|qua|pueri|uteri|erudlrejitur|as
iled|writeth|out|of|these|word|thus|general|cambridg
be|in|uasiangl|hath|been|taken|for|this|school|and|the
school|for|the|univers|i|will|believ|it|in|so|much|as
make|it|then|a|univers|not|much|sooner|than|that|i
know|not|what|gurgimtius|with|cantab|some|hundr
and|fifti|year|befor|christ|found|it|or|those|charter
of|king|artmr|bull|of|pope|honorius|and|sergius|sent
thither|anaximand|or|anaxagora|their|studi|there
with|more|such|pretend|and|absurd|unlikelihood|unless
everi|grammar|school|be|an|univers|as|this|was|where
children|were|taught|by|pcedagogi|et|magistrijuxta|morem|can
tuarioriim|f|as|bede|hath|expressli|which|so|make|canter
hunj|an|univers|also|but|neither|is|there|ani|touch|in
authent|and|ancient|stori|which|justifi|these|school|in
stitut|at|cambiidg|but|general|somewher|in|eastangl
reason|of|induc|are|frame|in|multitud|on|both
side|but|for|my|own|part|i|never|saw|aili|suffici
probabl|and|therefor|most|of|all|reli|upon|what|authori
tie|are|afford|among|them|i|ever|prefer|the|ap
pendix|to|the|stori|of|cruivland|suppos|done|by|peter|of
blol|affirm|that|under|hen|i|he|live|veri|near|the
same|time|therefor|believ|him|in|a|matter|not|subject|to
caus|of|historian|tempor|joffr|abbot|of|crowland
with|one|gilbert|his|commoign|and|three|other|monk
came|to|his|manor|of|catenham|as|they|use|ofttim|to
read|and|thenc|daili|go|to|cambridg|condudo|quodam
horreo|publico|sua|scientia|pallim|projitcnt|in|brevi|iempori
excursu|grundem|discipidorum|numerum|contraxerunt|anno
verb|secundo|adventus|illorum|tantum|accrevit|discipulorum|nu
merus|tarn|ex|totd|patrid|qiohm|ex|oppldo|qubd|quoiubet|domus
institut|a|school|for|cliildren
to|schoolmast|accord|to|the|fashion|at|canterburi
the|eleventh|song|one hundred and seven
maxima|jiorreum|nee|ulla|ecdesia|sufficerei|eoriim|receptamlo
and|so|goe|on|with|an|ensu|frequenc|of|school|if
befor|this|there|were|an|univers|i|imagin|that|in|it
was|not|profess|aristotl|s|ethic|which|tell|us|ts|rc
sivixtii|pixiag|for|then|would|they|not|have|permit
learn|reader|of|the|scienc|whom|all|that|hate|not
the|muse|could|not|but|love|to|be|compel|into|a|barn
instead|of|school|nor|is|it|toler|in|conceit|that|for
near|five|hundr|year|which|interced|twixt|this|and
sigebert|no|fitter|place|of|profess|should|be|erect|to
this|time|other|have|refer|the|begin|of|that|famous
seminari|of|good|literatur|and|if|room|be|left|for|me|i
offer|subscript|but|alway|under|reform|of|that
most|honour|tutress|s|pupil|which|shall|omit|fabu
lous|trash|judici|instruct|otherwis|but|the|author
here|out|of|polydor|leland|and|other|of|later|time|reli
upon|conjectur|hath|his|warrant|of|better|credit|than|can
tilap|anoth|relat|of|that|arcadian|origin|which|some
have|so|violent|patron
four hundred and three|renown|oxford|hiiilt|t|apollo|s|learn|brood
so|is|it|affirm|of|that|learn|king|yet|know|not|a
letter|until|he|was|past|twelv|by|polydor|bale|and
other|ground|themselv|upon|what|alfr|s|benefi
cenc|and|most|deserv|care|hath|manifest|in|eoyal
provis|for|that|sacr|nouric|of|learn|but|just
it|may|be|doubt|lest|they|took|instaur|of|what|was
defici|for|institut|for|although|you|grant|that|he
first|found|univers|colleg|yet|it|follow|not|but|there
might|be|common|school|and|colleg|as|at|this|day|in
leyden|gicss|and|other|place|of|high|and|low|germani
if|you|pleas|fetch|hither|that|of|greckiad|to|the|third
hire|a|barn|to|read|in|and|so|continu|till|the|number|of
tlieir|fcicliolar|exceed|the|content|of|that|or|ani|church
one hundred and eight|polyolbion
song|which|i|will|not|importun|you|to|believ|but|with
out|scrupl|you|can|not|but|credit|that|of|a|monk|of|s
dewi|made|grammar|and|rhetor|reader|there|by
king|alfr|in|these|word|of|the|year|eight hundred and eighty-six|jsxorta|est
pessimaac|teterrima|oxonu|discordia|inter|grimboldunt|this
was|a|great|and|devout|scholar|whose|aid|alfr|use|in
his|disposit|of|lectur|doctisdmosqii|illo|viro|secum
illuc|adduxit|et|veter|illo|scholastico|quo|ibidem|invenisset
qui|eius|adventu|lege|modo|ac|prcelegendi|formula|ah|eodem
grimboldo|instituta|omni|ex|part|ampledi|recumb|and
a|littl|after|quin|etiam|prohah|et|ostendeb|idqu|indtibi
tato|veterum|annalimri|testimonio|illius|loci|ordin|ac|instituta
a|nonnulli|pii|et|enid|hominibus|fuiss|sancita|tit|a|glldd
meljdno|he|was|a|great|mathematician|and|as|gilda|also
live|between|five hundred|and|goo|nennio|the|print|book|hath
fals|jvemrio|kentigerno|he|live|about|five hundred and nine|et|ulii|qui
omn|uteri|illic|consenuerunt|omnia|ibidem|foelici|pace|et|con
cordla|administrant|and|affirm|also|that|letter|had
there|been|happili|profess|in|veri|ancient|time|with|fre
quenci|of|scholar|until|irrupt|of|pagan|they|meant
dane|had|brought|them|to|this|late|restor|defici
after|this|testimoni|greater|than|all|except|what|can
be|more|plain|than|nobl|worth|and|fame|of|this|pillar|of
the|muse|long|befor|king|alfr|s|neither|make|i|ani
great|question|but|that|where|in|an|old|copi|of|gilda|his
life|publish|late|l|y|a|frenchman|it|is|print|that|he
studi|at|iren|which|clear|he|took|for|a|place|in|this
land|it|should|be|ichca|and|i|confess|befor|me|one|hath
asser|menevcn|de|gest|alfr
a|great|controversi|grew|twixt|tlios|new|scholar|which|alfr
brought|thither|and|those|whic|of|ancient|time|were|there|befor
c
about|alfr|k|time|befor|his|instaur|a|grammarian|was
not|found|in|his|kingilom|to|teach|him|florent|wigorn|pag|sou
joann|a|bosco|rarisicusi|iu|jbibliothec|iloriac|it|gild
cap|zero
the|eleventh|song|one hundred and nine
well|publish|the|conjectur|for|swtjsichm|the|wehh
name|of|that|citi|ex2|re3s|as|much|as|oxen|ford|yet|i
would|not|will|fall|into|the|extrem|of|make|it
memprik|as|some|do|that|were|but|vain|affect|to
dote|on|my|reverend|mother|but|becaus|in|those|remot
age|not|onli|univers|and|public|school|be|for|a
time|prohibit|by|pope|gregori|for|fear|of|breed|pelor
gian|and|arian|but|diver|monasteri|and|cloister
were|great|auditori|of|learn|as|appear|in|theodor|and
adrian|s|profess|at|canterburi|maldidjjh|and|aldelm|at
malmeshuri|this|aldelm|first|taught|the|unglish|to|write
latin|prose|and|vers|alcuin|at|yorh|bede|at|jarrov
and|such|other|more|i|guess|that|henc|came|much|obscu
riti|to|their|name|omit|or|suppress|by|envious|monk
of|those|time|than|whose|tradit|descend|through
mani|hand|of|their|like|we|have|no|credibl|author
but|whichsoev|of|these|two|sister|have|prerog|of
primogenitur|a|matter|too|much|controvert|twixt|them
none|can|give|them|less|attribut|than|to|be|two|radiant
eye|fix|in|this|island|as|the|beauteous|face|of|the|earth|s
bodi|to|what|other|have|by|industri|search|commu
nicat|i|add|concern|oxford|out|of|an|ancient|ms|but
sinc|the|clementin|what|i|there|read|apud|montem
pessulanum|farisio|oxoniam|colonia|boloniam|generalia
studia|ordinamus|ad|quce|prior|provinciali|quilibet|pos|it
mitter|duo|fratr|qui|habeant|studentium|libertatem|and
also|admonish|the|reader|of|an|impostur|thrust|into|the
world|this|last|autumn|mart|in|a|provinci|catalogu|of
bishopr|by|a|profess|antiquari|and|popish|canon|of
one|bri|twin|apolog|oxon|two|eighty-four
leland|ad|cyg|can|not|in|grantil|camel|in|wiltonia
cunstitution|fratrum|cap|de|studii|et|magist|student
at|mompdier|pari|oxford|cologn|bolojna|we|institut
general|studi
aubert|minuus|in|notit|episcopat|edit|parisii|one thousand, six hundred and ten
no|polyolbion
antwerp|tell|us|that|the|ms|copi|of|it|found|in|s
victor|s|librari|at|pari|was|written|five|hundr|year
sinc|and|in|the|number|of|canterburi|provinc|it|hath
oxford|which|be|written|oxoniensi|i|imagin|might
have|been|mistaken|for|exoniensi|as|exonia|iot|oxnnia
sometim|until|i|saw|exoniensi|join|also|by|which
stood|petrohurgensi|which|bruis|all|the|credit|of|the
monument|but|especi|of|him|that|publish|it|for
who|know|not|that|peterborough|was|no|bishopr|till|hen
viii|nor|inde|was|oxford|which|might|be|easili|thought
much|otherwis|by|incid|of|an|ignor|eye|on|that
vain|promis|titl|i|abstain|from|expati|in|matter
of|our|muse|seat|so|larg|and|too|larg|treat|of|by
other
four hundred and six|and|into|sever|shire|the|kingdom|did|divid
to|those|shire|he|constitut|justic|and|sheriff
call|jepepa|and|jhyjijejiepa|the|offic|of|those|two|be
befor|confound|in|vicedornini|ie|lieuten|but|so
that|vicedominus|and|vicecom|remain|indiffer|word
for|name|of|sheriff|as|in|a|charter|of|king|edr|nine hundred and fifty
ego|bingidph|vicedominus|consului|t|ego|alfer|vicecom
audivi|j|i|find|togeth|subscrib|the|justic|were|as
i|think|no|other|tlian|those|whom|they|call|eolbop|man
num|be|the|same|with|gojil|now|earl|in|whose|dis
posit|and|govern|upon|deleg|from|the|king
the|titl|be|officiari|not|hereditari|except|in|some
particular|shire|as|leicest|c|the|counti|was|with
the|bishop|of|the|dioces|the|earp|sate|in|the|scvfiej
nioc|twice|everi|year|where|charg|was|given|touch
gobej|pihc|jepeojiulb|jiihc|but|by|the|conqueror|this
histor|crowlandcnsi|see|to|thirteenth|song
edgar|leg|human|cap|five|edward|caj|eleven|canut|cajj|seventeen
iot|chart|two|liivh|two|jiro|decan|et|capit|lincoln|transcrip
bimus|in|jauo|angloruni|lib|two|fourteen|et|videa|ai|ud|fox|hist
tcclea|four|jod|s|right|aud|the|world|s
the|ele|venth|song|one|one|one
meddl|of|the|bishop|in|turn|was|prohibit|the
sheriff|had|then|his|month|court|also|as|the|now|countij
court|institut|by|the|saxon|ed|i|as|that|other|of|the
turn|by|ive|edgar|the|sheriff|is|now|immedi
offic|to|the|king|s|court|but|it|seem|that|then|the|earl
have|alway|the|third|part|of|the|shire|s|profit|both
befor|and|sinc|the|norman|had|charg|upon|him|for
this|divis|of|countri|how|mani|he|made|i|know|not
but|malmeshuri|under|ethelr|affirm|there|were|thirti
two|robert|of|glocest|thirtyf|about|which|time|jvin
chelcomb|was|one|but|then|join|to|glocest|shire|those
thirtytwo|were
kent|sussex|surrey|hantshir|berkshir|wiltshir|somer
set|dorset|devonshir|nine|govern|by|the|jvestsaxon
law
essex|middlesex|jsitffolk|norfolk|hertford|camhridg
bedford|buckinglmm|huntingdon|northampton|leicest
derbi|nottingham|lincoln|yark|fifteen|govern|by
the|danish|law
oxford|ivancick|glocest|herefm|d|shropshir|stafford
clieshir|worcest|eight|govern|by|the|mercian|law
here|was|none|of|cornwal|cumberland|style|also
carlileshir|northumberland|lancast|jfestmerland|which
was|sinc|titl|aplebyshir|durham|monmouth|nor|hut
land|which|at|this|day|make|our|number|besid|the|twelv
in|wale|forti|cornwal|becaus|of|the|briton|there
plant|until|the|conqueror|gave|the|counti|to|his|brother
robert|of|morcton|continu|out|of|the|divis|cumber
land|northumberland|westmcrland|and|durham|be|all
northern|seem|to|have|been|then|under|scottish|or|danish
see|to|the|tliirteenth|song
oilex|wigoniiensi|apiul|cam|in|dohimia
polychrouicon|lib|one|cap|de|proviucii
one hundred and twelve|polyolbion
power|but|the|two|first|receiv|their|divis|as|it
seem|befor|the|conquest|for|cumherland|had|it|par
ticular|governor|and|northumherlandr|earl|westmer
land|perhap|began|when|king|john|gave|it|robert|vipont
ancestor|to|the|clifford|hold|by|that|patent|to|this|day
the|inherit|of|the|sheriffdom|durham|religi|was
with|larg|immun|given|to|the|bishop|sinc|the|nor
77ian|invas|lancast|until|hen|iii|creat|his|younger
son|edmund|crootcehack|earl|of|it|i|think|was|no|counti
for|in|one|of|our|old|yearbook|a|learn|judg|affirm
that|in|this|henri|s|time|was|the|first|sheriff|s|tourn
held|there|nor|until|edward|first|son|to|edmund|of
langh|i|duke|of|york|and|afterward|duke|of|aumerl
creat|by|rich|ii|had|rutland|ani|earl|i|know|for
number|and|time|of|those|all|author|agre|not|with
me|but|i|conjectur|onli|upon|select|as|alur
divid|the|shire|first|so|to|him|is|owe|the|constitu
tion|of|hundr|tith|lath|and|wapentak|to|the
end|that|whosoev|were|not|law|upon|credit|of|his
borough|ie|pledg|admit|in|some|of|them|for|a|good
subject|should|be|reckon|as|suspici|of|life|and|loyalti
some|step|thereof|remain|in|our|ancient|and|later|law
book
four hundred and ten|which|he|an|heirloom|left|unto|the|english|throne
the|first|heal|of|the|ki7ig|s|evil|is|refer|to|this
edirard|the|confessor|and|of|a|particular|exampl|in|his
cure|a|young|marri|woman|an|old|monument|is|left|to
matth|west|f|l|three hundred and six|ingulph|hist|crowland
eight|tlioi|i|seventeen|e|l|three|fol|fifty-six|b
liract|lib|i|tract|do|coronil|cap|ten|quamplurimi|casus|in
aimi|ed|three|ct|five|jacob|apud|doui|lul|cok|lib|six|fol|seventy-seven|maximi
vero|hftc|faciunt|itinera|ilia|three|et|ed|one
jolydor|hist|eight
eilrcd|khivalleus|ap|took|in|charismat|sanat|cap|six
the|eleventh|song|one hundred and thirteen
poster|in|franc|such|a|kind|of|cure|is|attribut|to
their|king|also|both|of|that|and|this|if|you|desir|par
ticular|inquisit|take|dr|tooker|s|charisma|sanationi
41s|our|countri|s|common|law|did|faith|produc
in|lamhard|s|archceonomi|and|boger|of|hoveden|s|hen|ii
are|law|under|name|of|the|confessor|and|conqueror|join
and|deduc|for|the|most|part|out|of|their|predecessor
but|those|of|the|confessor|seem|to|be|the|same|if|malm
buri|deceiv|not|which|king|cnut|collect|of|whom|his
word|are|omn|lege|ab|antiqui|regibus|d|maonmh|antecessar
suo|ethelredo|lata|sub|intermination|ilegic|mvldce|ijerpettii
temporihus|observari|prmcepit|in|qicancm|custodiam|etiam|nunc
tempor|bonorum|sub|nomin|begu|edwardi|juratur|non|qubd
ill|statuerit|sed|qubd|observavcrit|and|under|this|name
have|they|been|humbl|desir|by|the|subject|grant
with|qualif|and|controvert|as|a|main|and|first
part|of|liberti|in|the|next|age|follow|the|norman|con
quest
one|de|gest|reg|two|cap|eleven
he|command|all|law|made|by|the|ancient|king|to|be|kept
especi|those|of|ethelr|to|which|the|king|swear|under|name
of|king|edward|s|law|not|that|he|made|them|but|observ|them
vol|ii
the|twelfth|song
the|argument
the|muse|that|part|of|shropshir|lili
which|on|the|east|of|severn|es
where|mighti|wrekin|ro|n|his|height
in|the|proud|cambrian|mountain|spite
sing|those|great|saxonsi|uhng|here
wliich|the|most|famous|warrior|were
and|as|she|in|her|cours|proceed
belat|mani|glorious|deed
of|guy|of|warwick|s|doth|strain
with|colebrond|that|renoivn6d|dane
and|of|the|famous|battl|tri
twixt|knute|and|edmondirousid
to|the|staffordian|field|doth|rove
visit|the|spring|of|trent|and|dove
of|moreland|cank|and|need|wood|sing
an|end|which|to|this|canto|bring
ten
is
i|he|haughti|camhrian|hill|enamor|d|of|their|prais
as|they|who|onli|sought|ambiti|to|rais
the|blood|of|godlik|brate|their|head|do
proud|bear
and|haang|crown|d|themselv|sole|eegent|of|the|air
anoth|war|with|heaven|as|though|they|meant|to|make|five
did|seem|in|great|disdain|the|bold|aifront|to|take
eighty-two
one hundred and sixteen|polyolbion
that|ani|petti|hill|upon|the|english|side
siunild|dare|not|with|a|crouch|to|vail|unto|their|pride
when|jfrelin|as|a|hill|his|proper|worth|that|knew
and|undeistood|from|whenc|their|insol|grew|lo
for|all|that|they|appear|d|so|terribl|in|sight
ytt|would|not|onc|forego|a|jot|that|was|his|right
and|when|they|star|d|on|him|to|them|the|like|he|gave
and|answer|d|glanc|for|glanc|and|brave|again|for|brave
that|avlien|some|other|hill|which|english|dweller|were|is
the|lusti|ifrejdn|saw|himself|so|well|to|bear
against|the|cambrian|part|respectless|of|their|power|j
his|emin|disgrac|expect|everi|hour
tlios|flatter|that|befor|with|mani|cheer|look
had|grac|d|his|good|site|him|utter|forsook|twenty
and|muffl|them|in|cloud|like|mourner|veil|d|in|black
which|of|their|utmost|hope|attend|the|ruinous|wrack
that|those|delici|nymph|fair|teanu|and|ilodon|clear
two|brook|of|him|belov|d|and|two|that|held|him|dear
he|have|none|but|them|the|have|none|but|he|two
wliich|to|their|mutual|joy|might|either|s|object|be
witliin|their|secret|brtast|conceiv|sundri|fear
and|as|they|mixt|their|stream|for|him|so|mixt|their|tear
whom|in|their|come|down|wdien|plain|he|discern
for|them|his|nobler|heart|in|his|strong|bosom|yearn|so
but|constant|resolv|d|that|dearer|if|they|were
the|lrikm|should|not|yet|all|from|the|english|bear
therefor|quoth|he|brave|flood|though|forth|by|cambria
brought
yet|as|fair|england|s|friend|or|mine|thou|wouldst|be|thought
zero|severn|let|thine|ear|my|just|defenc|partak|thirty-five
which|said|in|the|behalf|of|th|english|thus|he|spake
wise|ifcer|i|suppos|suffici|hath|said
of|those|our|princ|here|which|iistcd|watch|d|and|pray|d
out|of|plinuimon|in|the|confin|of|cnrdkan|andmontgovkri
the|tjvelftii|song|one hundred and seventeen
whose|deep|devot|went|for|other|ventrous|deed
but|in|this|song|of|mine|he|serious|that|read|forty
shall|find|ere|i|have|done|the|britan|so|extol|d
whose|height|each|mountain|strive|so|main|to|uphold
match|d|with|as|valiant|men|and|of|as|clean|a|might
as|skil|to|command|and|as|inur|d|to|fight
who|when|then|fortun|will|d|that|after|they|should
scors|4i
blow|with|the|bigbon|d|dane|eschang|forc|for|forc
when|first|he|put|from|sea|to|forag|on|this|shore
two|hundr|year|distain|d|with|either|s|equal|gore
now|this|aloft|now|that|oft|did|the|english|reign
and|oftentim|again|depress|by|the|dane|so
the|saxon|then|i|say|themselv|as|brave|show|d
as|these|on|whom|the|welsh|such|glorious|prais|bestowd
nor|could|his|angri|sword|who|egbert|overthrew
through|which|he|thought|at|onc|the|saxon|to|subdu
his|king|courag|quell|but|from|his|short|retir|fifty-five
his|reinforc|trpop|new|forg|d|with|spright|lire
befor|them|drave|the|dane|and|made|the|britan|run
whom|he|by|liber|avag|here|to|his|aid|had|won
upon|their|recreant|back|which|both|in|flight|were|slain
till|their|huge|murther|heap|manur|d|each|neighbour
plain|till
as|ethelwolf|again|his|utmost|power|that|bent
against|those|fresh|suppli|each|year|from|denmark|sent
which|prowl|up|and|down|in|their|rude|danish|oar
here|put|themselv|by|stealth|upon|the|pestr|shore
in|mani|a|doubt|fight|much|fame|in|england|wan|os
so|did|the|king|of|kent|courag|afhelstan
which|here|against|the|dane|got|such|victori|day
so|we|the|ifiushir|men|as|worthili|may|prais
that|buckl|with|those|dane|by|ceorl|and|osrick|brought
see|to|the|firdt|soug
one hundred and eighteen|polyolbion
and|elheldr|with|them|nine|sundri|field|that|fought
record|in|his|prais|the|conquest|of|one|year|n
you|rightnam|d|english|then|courag|men|you|were
when|bed|ye|regain|d|led|by|that|valiant|lord
vhere|basrig|ye|outbrav|d|and|halden|sword|to|sword
the|most|redoubt|spkit|that|denmark|here|addrest|seventy-five
and|aim|not|much|inferior|to|the|rest
who|have|in|his|day|so|mani|danger|past
in|seven|brave|foughten|field|their|champion|huhha|chac|d
and|slew|him|in|the|end|at|aungton|that|day
whose|like|the|sun|neer|saw|in|his|diurnal|way|so
where|those|that|from|the|field|sore|wound|sad|fled
were|wellnear|overwhelm|d|with|mountain|of|the|dead
his|forc|and|fortun|made|the|foe|so|much|to|fear
as|they|the|land|at|last|did|utter|forswear
and|when|proud|bollo|next|their|former|power|repair|d
yea|when|the|avorst|of|all|it|with|the|euglhh|far|d|so
mios|countri|near|at|hand|his|forc|did|still|suppli
and|denmark|to|her|drew|the|strength|of|normandg
this|princ|in|mani|a|fight|their|forc|still|defi
the|good|river|lee|he|wise|did|divid|oo
by|wdiich|the|dane|had|then|their|fullfraught|navi
tew|d
tlie|great|of|whose|stream|besieg|harford|rew|d
this|yllfred|whose|foresight|had|polit|found
betwixt|them|and|the|thame|advantag|of|the|ground
a|puissant|hand|thereto|labori|did|put|five
and|into|lesser|stream|that|spacious|current|cut
their|ship|thus|set|on|shore|to|frustrat|their|desir
those|danh|hulk|becam|the|food|of|english|fire
great|alfr|left|his|life|when|bifida|upgrew
that|far|beyond|the|pitch|of|other|women|flew|loo
who|havuig|in|her|youth|of|child|felt|the|woe
see|to|the|next|song|of|eollo
the|twelfth|song|one hundred and nineteen
her|lord|s|embrac|vow|d|she|never|more|would|know
but|diffr|from|her|sex|as|full|of|man|fire
this|most|courag|queen|by|conquest|to|aspir
the|puissant|danish|power|victori|pursu|d|io5
and|resolut|here|through|their|thick|squadron|hew|d
her|way|into|the|north|where|darbi|have|won
and|thing|beyond|belief|upon|the|enemi|done
she|sav|d|besieg|york|and|in|the|dane|despit
when|most|they|were|upheld|with|all|the|eastern|might|no
more|town|and|citi|built|out|of|her|wealth|and|power
than|all|their|hostil|flame|could|ani|way|devour
and|when|the|danish|here|the|countri|most|destroy|d
yet|all|our|power|on|them|not|wholli|were|employ|d
but|some|we|still|reserv|d|abroad|for|us|to|roam|one hundred and fifteen
to|fetch|in|foreign|spoil|to|help|our|loss|at|home
and|all|the|land|from|us|they|never|clear|wan
but|to|his|endless|prais|our|english|athelstan
in|the|northumbrian|field|with|most|victori|might
put|alaff|and|his|power|to|more|inglori|flight|one hundred and twenty
and|more|than|ani|king|of|th|english|him|befor
each|way|from|north|to|south|from|west|to|th|eastern
shore
made|all|the|isl|his|own|his|seat|who|firm|fixt
the|galidonian|hill|and|cathn|point|betwixt
and|constantin|their|king|a|prison|hither|brought|one hundred and twenty-five
then|over|severn|s|bank|the|warlik|britan|fought
where|he|their|princ|forc|d|from|that|their|strong|retreat
in|england|to|appear|at|his|imperi|seat
but|after|when|the|dane|who|never|weari|were
came|with|intent|to|make|a|general|conquest|here|iso
they|brought|with|them|a|man|deem|d|of|so|wondrous
might
as|was|not|to|be|match|d|by|ani|mortal|wight
for|one|could|scarc|bear|his|axe|into|the|field
one hundred and twenty|polfolbioiv
which|as|a|littl|wand|the|dane|would|light|wield
and|to|enforc|that|strength|of|such|a|dauntless|spirit|one hundred and thirty-five
a|man|in|their|conceit|of|so|exceed|merit
that|to|the|englh|oft|they|offer|d|him|in|pride
the|end|of|the|war|by|combat|to|decid
much|scandal|which|procur|d|unto|the|english|name
when|some|out|of|their|love|and|some|spurr|d|on|with
shame|i4o
by|envi|some|provok|d|some|out|of|courag|fain
would|undertak|the|becaus|to|combat|with|the|dane
but|athelstan|the|while|in|settl|judgment|found
should|the|defend|fail|how|wide|and|deep|a|wound
it|like|was|to|leav|to|his|defens|war|one hundred and forty-five
thus|whilst|with|sundri|doubt|his|thought|perplex
are
it|plea|d|allpow|heaven|that|warwick|s|famous|guy
the|knight|through|all|the|world|renown|d|for|chivalri
arriv|d|from|foreign|part|where|he|had|held|him|long
his|honour|arm|devout|have|hong|one hundred and fifty
in|a|religi|hous|the|off|ring|of|his|jjrais
to|his|redeem|christ|his|help|at|all|assay
those|arm|by|whose|strong|proof|he|mani|a|christian
freed
and|bore|the|perfect|mark|of|mani|a|worthi|deed
himself|a|palmer|poor|in|home|russet|clad|one hundred and fifty-five
and|onli|in|his|hand|his|hermit|s|staff|he|had
towrd|ifinchestcr|alon|so|sad|took|his|way
where|athelstan|that|time|the|king|of|england|lay
and|where|the|danish|camp|then|strong|did|abid
near|to|a|good|mead|wliich|men|there|call|the|hide|loo
the|day|that|fhiij|arriv|d|when|silent|night|did|bring
sleep|both|on|friend|and|foe|that|most|rcdigious|king
whose|strong|and|constant|heart|all|grievous|care|sup
prest
the|ttvelfth|song|twenty-one
his|due|devot|done|betook|himself|to|rest
to|whom|it|seem|d|by|night|an|angel|did|appear|ig5
sent|to|him|from|that|god|whom|he|invok|d|by|prayar
command|him|the|time|not|idl|to|forslow
but|rath|as|he|could|rise|to|such|a|gate|to|go
wherea|he|should|not|fail|to|find|a|good|knight
in|palmer|s|poor|attir|though|veri|mean|dight|one hundred and seventy
yet|by|his|come|shape|and|limb|exceed|strong
he|easli|might|him|know|the|other|folk|among
and|bad|him|not|to|fear|but|choos|him|for|the|man
no|sooner|brake|the|day|but|upros|athelstan
and|as|the|vision|show|d|he|such|a|palmer|found|ir
with|other|of|his|sort|there|sit|on|the|ground
where|for|some|poor|repast|they|onli|seem|d|to|stay
els|readi|to|depart|each|one|upon|his|way
when|secret|the|king|reveal|to|the|knight
his|comfort|dream|that|latelypass|night|iso
with|mild|and|princ|word|bespeak|him|quoth|he
far|better|you|are|known|to|heaven|it|seem|than|me
for|this|great|action|fit|by|whose|most|dread|command
befor|a|world|of|men|it|is|lay|d|upon|your|hand
then|stout|and|valiant|knight|here|to|my|court|repair|iss
refresh|you|in|my|bath|and|mollifi|your|care
with|comfort|wine|and|meat|what|you|will|ask
and|choos|my|richest|arm|to|fit|you|for|this|task
the|palmer|grey|with|age|with|counten|lowt|low
his|head|even|to|tlie|earth|befor|the|king|doth|bow|mo
him|soft|answer|thus|dread|lord|it|fit|me|i|will
a|wretch|man|t|oppos|high|heaven|s|etern|will
yet|my|most|sovereign|lieg|no|more|of|me|esteem
than|this|poor|habit|show|a|pilgrim|as|i|seem
but|yet|one|must|confess|have|seen|in|former|day|one hundred and ninety-five
the|best|knight|of|the|world|and|scuffl|in|some|fray
those|time|are|gone|with|me|and|be|age|now
one hundred and twenty-two|polyolbion
have|off|red|np|my|arm|to|heaven|and|made|my|vow
keer|more|to|bear|a|shield|nor|my|declin|age
except|some|palmer|s|tent|or|home|hermitag|two hundred
shall|ever|enter|roof|but|if|by|heaven|and|thee
this|action|be|impo|d|great|english|king|on|me
send|to|the|danish|camp|their|challeng|to|accept
in|some|conveni|place|proclaim|it|be|kept
where|by|th|almighti|s|power|for|england|i|will|appear|two hundred and five
the|king|much|plea|d|in|mind|assum|his|wont
cheer
and|to|the|danish|power|his|choicest|herault|sent
when|both|through|camp|and|court|this|combat|quick
went
which|sudden|divulg|d|whilst|everi|listn|ear
as|thirst|after|news|desir|was|to|hear|two hundred and ten
who|for|the|english|side|durst|undertak|the|day
the|puissant|king|accord|that|in|the|middl|way
betwixt|the|tent|and|town|to|either|s|equal|sight
within|a|good|mead|most|fit|for|such|a|fight
the|list|should|be|prepar|d|for|this|materi|prize|two hundred and fifteen
the|day|prefixt|onc|com|n|both|dune|and|english|rise
and|to|th|appoint|place|th|unnumbr|peopl|throng
the|weaker|femal|sex|old|men|and|children|young
into|the|window|get|and|up|on|stall|to|see
the|man|on|whose|brave|hand|their|hope|that|day|must|be
in|note|of|it|well|there|might|a|man|behold|two hundred and twenty-one
more|sundri|form|of|fear|than|thought|imagin|could
one|look|upon|his|friend|with|sad|and|heavi|chear
who|seem|in|this|distress|a|part|with|him|to|bear
their|passion|do|express|much|piti|mixt|with|rage|two hundred and twenty-five
whilst|one|his|wife|s|lament|is|labour|to|assuag
his|littl|infant|near|in|childish|gibbri|lg|show
av|hat|addeth|to|his|grief|who|sought|to|calm|her|woe
one|have|climb|d|some|roof|the|concours|to|descri
the|tivelfth|song|one hundred and twenty-three
from|thenc|upon|the|earth|direct|his|humbl|eye|two hundred and thirty
as|sinc|he|thither|came|he|sudden|had|found
some|danger|them|amongst|which|lurk|d|upon|the|ground
one|stand|with|fix6d|eye|as|though|he|were|aghast
anoth|sad|come|as|though|his|hope|were|past
this|harkneth|with|his|friend|as|though|with|him|to|break
of|some|intend|act|whilst|they|togeth|speak|two hundred and thirty-six
anoth|standeth|near|to|listen|what|they|say
or|what|should|be|the|end|of|this|so|doubt|day
one|great|and|general|face|the|gather|peopl|seem
so|that|the|perfectst|fight|behold|could|not|deem|2w
what|look|most|sorrow|show|d|their|grief|so|equal|were
upon|the|head|of|two|whose|cheek|were|join|d|so|near
as|if|togetji|grown|a|third|his|chin|doth|rest
anoth|look|oer|his|and|other|hard|prest
look|d|underneath|their|arm|thus|whilst|in|crowd
they|throng|two hundred and forty-five
led|by|the|king|himself|the|champion|come|along
a|man|wellstrook|in|year|in|home|palmer|s|gray
and|in|his|hand|his|staff|his|reverend|step|to|stay
hold|a|come|pace|which|at|his|pass|by
in|everi|censur|tongu|as|everi|serious|eye|two hundred and fifty
compass|mixt|with|fear|distrust|and|courag|bred
then|colehrond|for|the|dane|came|forth|in|ire|red
befor|him|from|the|camp|an|ensign|first|display|d
amidst|a|guard|of|gleav|then|sumptuous|array|d
were|twenti|gallant|youth|that|to|the|warlik|sound|two hundred and fifty-five
of|danish|brazen|drum|with|mani|a|lofti|bound
come|with|their|countri|s|march|as|they|to|mar|should
danc
thus|forward|to|the|fight|both|champion|them|advanc
and|each|without|respect|doth|resolut|chuse
the|weapon|that|he|brought|nor|doth|his|foe|s|refus|two hundred
the|dane|prepar|his|axe|that|pondrous|was|to|feel
one hundred and twenty-four|polyolbiox
mios|squar|were|laid|with|plate|and|rivet|with|steel
and|arm|down|along|with|pike|whose|hardn|point
forc|d|rith|the|weapon|s|weight|had|power|to|tear|the
joint
of|curass|or|of|mail|or|whatsoeer|they|took|two hundred and fifty-five
which|caus|d|him|at|the|knight|disdain|to|look
when|our|stout|palmer|soon|unknown|for|valiant|gui
the|cord|from|his|straight|loin|doth|present|unti
put|off|his|palmer|s|weed|unto|his|truss|which|bore
the|stain|of|ancient|arm|but|show|d|it|had|befor|two hundred and seventy
been|costl|cloth|of|gold|and|off|his|hood|he|threw
out|of|his|hermit|s|staff|his|twohand|sword|he|drew
the|unsuspect|sheath|which|long|to|it|had|been
which|till|that|instant|time|the|peopl|had|not|seen
a|sword|so|often|tri|d|then|to|himself|quoth|he|two hundred and seventy-five
arm|let|me|crave|your|aid|to|set|my|countri|free
and|never|shall|my|heart|your|help|again|requir
but|onli|to|my|god|to|lift|you|up|in|pray|r
here|cohbrond|forward|made|and|soon|the|christian
knight
encount|him|again|with|equal|power|and|spight|2so
wherea|betwixt|them|two|might|easli|have|been|seen
such|blow|in|public|throng|as|us6d|had|they|been
of|mani|there|the|least|might|mani|men|have|slain
which|none|but|they|could|strike|nor|none|but|they|sustain
the|most|relentless|eye|that|had|the|power|to|awe|2j55
and|so|great|wonder|breil|in|those|the|fight|that|saw
as|verili|they|thought|that|natur|until|then
had|purpos|reserv|d|the|utmost|power|of|men
where|strength|still|answer|d|strength|on|courag|courag
grew
look|how|two|lion|fierc|both|hungri|both|pursu|two hundred and ninety
one|sweet|and|selfsam|prey|at|one|anoth|fli
and|with|their|arm|paw|ingrappl|dread
the|twelfth|song|one hundred and twenty-five
the|thunder|of|tlieir|rage|and|boistrous|struggl|make
the|neighbour|forest|round|affright|to|quak
then|sad|encount|such|the|mighti|cokbrond|stroke|two hundred and ninety-five
a|cruel|blow|at|gay|which|though|he|fine|broke
yet|with|the|weapon|s|weight|his|ancient|hilt|it|split
and|therebi|lessen|much|the|champion|light|hit
upon|the|rever|brow|immedi|from|whenc
tlie|ijlood|dropp|d|soft|down|as|if|the|wound|had|sens|three hundred
of|their|much|inward|woe|that|it|with|grief|should|see
the|dane|a|dead|blow|suppos|it|to|be
sent|such|an|echo|shout|that|rent|the|troubl|air
the|english|at|the|nois|wax|d|all|so|wan|with|fear
as|though|they|lost|the|blood|their|agt|d|champion|she|would
yet|were|not|these|so|pale|but|th|other|were|as|red|three hundred and six
as|though|the|blood|that|fell|upon|their|cheek|had|stay|d
here|guy|his|better|spirit|recal|to|his|aid
came|fresh|upon|his|foe|when|mighti|cokbrond|make
anoth|desper|stroke|which|guy|of|ifarwkk|take|three hundred and ten
undaunt|aloft|and|follow|d|with|a|blow
upon|his|shorter|rib|that|the|excess|flow
streatn|d|up|unto|his|hilt|the|wound|so|gap|d|withal
as|though|it|meant|to|say|behold|your|champion|s|fall
by|this|proud|palmer|s|hand|such|clap|again|and|cri|three hundred and fifteen
the|joy|english|gave|as|cleft|the|veri|sky
which|come|on|along|from|these|that|were|without
when|those|within|the|town|receiv|d|this|cheer|shout
they|answer|d|them|with|like|as|those|their|joy|that|knew
then|with|such|eager|blow|each|other|they|pursu|three hundred and twenty
as|everi|offer|miid|should|threaten|immin|death
until|through|heat|and|toil|both|hard|draw|breath
they|desper|do|close|look|how|two|boar|be|set
togeth|side|to|side|their|threatn|tusk|do|whet
and|with|their|gnash|teeth|their|angri|foam|do|bite|three hundred and twenty-five
whilst|still|they|shouldr|seek|each|other|where|to|smite
one hundred and twenty-six|polyolbion
thus|stood|those|ire|knight|till|fli|back|at|length
the|palmer|of|the|two|the|first|recov|strength
upon|the|left|arm|lent|great|colebrond|such|a|wound
that|whilst|his|weapon|s|point|fell|wellnear|to|the|ground
and|slowli|he|it|rai|d|the|valiant|guy|again|three hundred and thirty-one
sent|through|his|cloven|scalp|his|blade|into|his|brain
when|downward|went|his|head|and|up|his|heel|he|threw
as|want|hand|to|bid|his|countrymen|adieu
the|english|part|which|thought|an|end|he|would|have
made|three hundred and thirty-five
and|seem|as|they|much|would|in|his|prais|have|said
he|bade|them|yet|forbear|whilst|he|pursu|d|his|fame
that|to|this|pass|king|next|in|success|came
that|great|and|puissant|knight|in|whose|victori|day
those|knightlik|deed|were|done|no|less|deserv|prais
brave|edmond|jedioard|s|son|that|stafford|have|taen|three hundred and forty-one
with|as|success|speed|won|darhi|from|the|dane
from|lester|then|again|and|lincoln|at|the|length
drave|out|the|dacian|power|by|his|resistless|strength
and|this|his|england|clear|d|beyond|that|rage|flood|three hundred and forty-five
which|that|proud|king|of|ilunn|onc|christn|with|his
blood
by|which|great|edmond|s|power|appar|was|shown
the|land|from|uumher|south|recov|for|his|own
that|edgar|after|him|so|much|disdain|d|the|dane
unworthi|of|a|war|that|should|disturb|his|reign|sso
as|general|he|seem|d|regardless|of|their|hate
and|studi|everi|way|magnific|in|state
at|chester|whilst|he|liv|d|at|more|than|king|charg
eight|tributari|king|there|row|d|him|in|his|barg
his|shore|from|pirat|sack|the|king|that|strong
kept|three hundred and fifty-five
a|ncjdune|whose|proud|sail|the|british|ocean|swept
uumher|see|to|the|tenth|song
the|tivelfth|song|one hundred and twenty-seven
but|after|his|deceas|when|his|more|hope|son
by|cruel|stepdam|s|hate|to|death|was|last|done
to|set|his|right|crown|upon|a|wrong|head
when|by|thi|fatal|curs|licenti|etheldr|eight hundred and sixty
through|dissolut|sloth|and|thi|abhor|life
as|grievous|were|thi|sin|so|were|thi|sorrow|rife
the|dane|possess|all|the|english|forc|d|to|bear
a|heavier|yoke|than|first|those|heathen|slaveri|were
subject|bought|and|sold|in|that|most|avretch|plight|three hundred and sixty-five
as|even|their|thialdom|seem|d|their|neighbour|to|affright
yet|could|not|all|their|plagu|the|english|height|abat
but|even|in|their|lowst|ebb|and|miserablest|state
courag|themselv|they|into|action|put
and|in|one|night|the|throat|of|all|the|danish|cut|37o
and|when|in|their|reveng|the|most|insati|dane
unshipp|d|them|ou|our|shore|under|their|puissant|swane
and|swoll|n|with|hate|and|ire|their|huge|unwieldi|forc
came|clustr|like|the|greek|out|of|the|woodenhors
and|the|norfolcian|town|the|nearst|unto|the|east|three hundred and seventy-six
with|sacrileg|and|rape|did|terriblest|infest
those|dane|yet|from|the|shore|we|with|such|violenc|drave
that|from|our|sword|their|sliip|could|them|but|hard|save
and|to|renew|the|war|that|year|ensu|when
with|fit|suppli|for|spoil|they|land|here|again|sso
and|all|the|southern|shore|from|kent|to|cornwal|spread
with|those|disordr|troop|by|alaff|luther|led
in|second|their|swane|which|cri|d|to|them|for|aid
their|multitud|so|much|sad|ethelr|dismay|d
as|from|his|countri|forc|d|the|wretch|king|to|fli|3s5
an|english|yet|there|was|when|england|seem|d|to|lie
under|the|heaviest|yoke|that|ever|kingdom|bore
who|wash|d|his|secret|knife|in|stvane|s|relentless|gore
whilst|swell|in|excess|his|lavish|cup|he|pli|d
such|mean|t|redeem|themselv|th|afliict|nation|tri|d
one hundred and twenty-eight|polyolbion
and|when|courag|knute|th|late|murther|d|swanii|son
came|in|t|reveng|that|act|on|his|great|father|done|three hundred and ninety-two
he|found|so|rare|a|spirit|that|here|against|him|rose
as|though|ordain|d|by|heaven|his|great|to|oppos
who|avith|him|foot|to|foot|and|face|to|face|durst|stand|three hundred and ninety-five
when|knute|which|here|alon|affect|the|command
the|crown|upon|his|head|at|fair|southhampton|set
and|edniond|loth|to|lose|what|knute|desir|d|to|get
at|london|caus|d|himself|inaugur|to|be
king|knute|avould|conquer|all|king|edmond|would|be|free
the|kingdom|is|the|prize|for|which|they|both|are|prest
and|with|their|equal|power|both|meet|in|the|west|four hundred and two
the|green|dorsetian|field|a|deep|vermilion|dy|d
ayher|gilungham|gave|way|to|their|great|host|in|pride
abund|their|blood|that|each|on|other|spent|four hundred and five
but|edmond|on|whose|side|that|day|the|better|went
and|with|like|fortun|thought|the|remnant|to|suppress
that|sarum|then|besieg|d|which|was|in|great|distress
with|his|victori|troop|to|scdhhurij|retir
when|with|fresh|bleed|wound|knute|as|with|fresh
desir|four hundred and ten
whose|might|though|somewhat|maim|d|his|mind|yet|un
subdu|d
his|late|conquer|foe|courag|pursu|d
and|find|out|a|way|sent|to|his|friend|with|speed
llo|him|suppli|would|with|aid|and|be|help|d|at|need
ti|mpts|edmond|still|to|fight|still|ho|ing|for|a|day|four hundred and fifteen
toward|jvwstershir|their|power|both|well|upon|their|way
there|fall|to|the|field|in|a|continu|fight
two|day|the|angri|host|still|part|were|l|y|night
avher|twice|the|rise|sun|and|twice|the|set|saw
them|with|their|equal|wound|their|weari|breath|to|draw
great|london|to|surpris|then|next|cnnuta|make|four hundred and twenty-one
and|thitherward|as|fast|king|edmond|iromid|take
the|tjvelfth|sonq|one hundred and twenty-nine
niilst|kmde|set|down|his|sieg|befor|the|eastern|gate
king|edmond|through|the|west|pass|d|in|triumphal|state
but|this|courag|king|that|scorn|in|his|pride|four hundred and twenty-five
a|town|should|be|besieg|d|wherein|he|did|abid
into|the|field|again|the|valiant|edmond|goe
kanutus|yet|that|hope|to|win|what|he|did|lose
provok|him|still|to|fight|and|fall|back|where|they
might|fieldroorath|find|at|larg|their|ensign|to|display|four hundred and thirty
togeth|flew|again|that|brentford|with|tlie|blood
of|dane|and|english|mix|d|discolour|d|long|time|stood
yet|edmond|as|befor|went|victor|still|away
when|soon|that|valiant|knute|whom|noth|could|dismay
recal|d|his|scatter|d|troop|and|into|essex|hie|four hundred and thirty-five
where|as|i|willfortun|would|the|dane|with|fresh|suppli
was|late|come|aland|to|whom|brave|ironsid|make
but|knute|to|him|again|as|soon|fresh|courag|take
and|fortun|as|herself|determin|to|show
that|she|could|bring|an|ebb|on|valiant|edmomt|flow|four hundred and forty
and|easli|cast|him|down|from|off|the|top|of|chanc
by|turn|of|her|wheel|canutus|doth|advanc
where|she|beheld|that|princ|which|she|had|favour|d|long
even|in|her|proud|despit|his|murther|d|troop|among
with|sweat|and|blood|besmear|d|duke|earl|and|bishop
slain|four hundred and forty-five
in|that|most|dread|day|when|all|went|to|the|dane
through|world|of|danger|wade|and|with|his|sword|and
shield
such|wonder|there|to|act|as|made|her|in|the|field
asham|of|herself|so|brave|a|spirit|as|he
by|her|unconst|hand|should|so|much|wrong6d|be|four hundred and fifty
but|have|lost|the|day|to|glocest|he|draw
to|rais|a|second|power|in|his|slain|soldier|becaus
when|lateencourag|d|knute|whilst|fortun|yet|doth|last
who|oft|from|ironsid|fled|now|follow|would|him|as|fast
vol|ii|nine
one hundred and thirty|polyolbion
whilst|thus|in|civil|arm|continu|they|toil|four hundred and fifty-five
and|what|th|one|strive|to|make|the|other|seek|to|spoil
with|tbreatn|sword|still|drawn|and|with|obnoxi
hand
attend|their|reveng|whilst|either|enemi|stand
one|man|amongst|the|rest|from|this|confus|break
and|to|the|ire|king|with|courag|bold|speak|46t
yet|can|not|all|this|blood|your|raven|outrag|fill|one
is|there|no|law|no|bound|to|your|ambiti|will
but|what|your|sword|admit|one|as|natur|did|ordain
our|live|for|noth|els|but|onli|to|maintain
your|murther|sack|and|spoil|if|by|this|wast|war|four hundred and sixty-five
the|land|unpeopl|lie|some|nation|shall|from|far
by|ruin|of|you|both|into|the|isl|be|brought
obtain|that|for|which|you|twain|so|long|have|fought
unless|then|through|your|thirst|of|emperi|you|mean
both|nation|in|these|broil|shall|be|extinguish|d|clean|47o
select|you|champion|fit|by|them|to|prove|your|right
or|tri|it|man|to|man|yourselv|in|singl|fight
when|as|those|warlik|king|provok|d|with|courag|high
it|will|accept|in|person|by|and|by
and|whilst|they|them|prepar|the|shapeless|concours|grow
in|littl|time|so|great|that|their|unusu|flow|four hundred and seventy-six
surround|scrern|s|bank|whose|stream|amaz|stood
her|birllch|to|behold|inislcd|with|her|flood
that|with|refulg|arm|then|flame|whilst|the|king
whose|rage|out|of|the|hate|of|cither|s|empir|spring|four hundred and eighty
both|armd|caplip|upon|their|bar|hors
togeth|fierc|flew|that|in|their|violent|cours
like|thunder|when|it|speak|most|horribl|and|loud
tear|the|fullstuff|would|panch|of|some|congeal|cloud
their|strong|hoof|strook|the|earth|and|with|the|fear
shock
their|spear|in|splinter|flew|their|bever|both|unlock
the|twelfth|song|one hundred and thirty-one
camdus|of|the|two|that|furthest|was|from|hope
who|found|with|what|a|foe|his|fortun|was|to|cope
cri|nobl|edmoml|hold|let|us|the|land|divid
here|th|english|and|the|dane|from|either|equal|side|four hundred and ninety
were|echo|to|his|word|and|all|aloud|do|cri
courag|king|divid|twere|piti|such|should|die
when|now|the|neighbour|flood|will|d|ivrehin|to
suppress
his|style|or|they|were|like|to|surfeit|with|excess
and|time|had|brought|about|that|now|they|all|began|four hundred and ninety-five
to|listen|to|a|longtold|propheci|avhich|ran
of|mordaml|that|she|might|live|prosper|to|see
a|river|born|of|her|who|well|might|reckon|d|be
the|third|of|this|larg|isl|which|saw|did|first|aris
from|arden|in|those|day|deliv|propheci|five hundred
the|druid|as|some|say|by|her|instruct|were
in|mani|secret|skill|she|had|been|conn|d|her|lere
the|ledden|of|the|bird|most|perfect|she|knew
and|also|from|their|flight|strang|auguri|she|dreav
supremest|in|her|place|whose|circuit|was|extent|five hundred and five
from|avon|to|the|bank|of|severn|and|to|trent
avher|empresslik|she|sat|with|natur|s|bounti|blest
and|serv|d|by|mani|a|nymph|but|two|of|all|the|rest
that|staffordsjiir|call|her|there|both|of|high|account
the|eldst|of|which|is|cank|though|needwood|her|sur
mount|five hundred and ten
in|excel|of|soil|by|be|rich|plac|d
twixt|trent|and|batniug|dove|and|equal|imbrac|d
by|their|abound|bank|particip|their|store
of|britain|s|forest|all|from|th|less|unto|the|more
for|fine|of|her|turf|surpass|and|doth|beai|sis
her|curl|head|so|high|that|forest|far|and|near
oft|grutch|at|her|estat|her|flourish|to|see
of|all|their|state|tire|disrob|when|they|be
9ii
one hundred and thirty-two|polyolbion
but|as|the|world|goe|now|o|woful|canlc|the|while
as|brave|a|woodxympli|onc|as|ani|of|tlii|isl|five hundred and twenty
great|arden|s|eldest|child|which|in|her|mother|s|ground
befor|fair|fecknham|s|self|her|old|age|might|have|crown|d
when|as|those|fallow|deer|and|hugehanch|d|stag|that|graz|d
upon|her|shaggi|heath|the|passeng|amaz|d|five hundred and twenty-four
to|see|their|mighti|herd|with|highpalm|d|head|to|threat
the|wood|of|oergrown|oak|as|though|they|meant|to|set
their|horn|to|th|other|height|but|now|both|those
and|these
are|by|vile|gain|devour|d|so|abject|are|our|day
she|now|unlik|herself|a|neatherd|s|life|doth|live
and|her|deject|mind|to|countri|care|doth|give|five hundred and thirty
but|muse|thou|seemst|to|leav|the|moreland|too|too|long
of|whom|report|may|speak|our|mighti|wast|among
she|from|her|chilli|site|as|from|her|barren|feed
for|bodi|horn|and|hair|as|fair|a|beast|doth|breed
as|scarc|this|great|isl|can|equal|then|of|her|five hundred and thirty-five
whi|shouldst|thou|all|this|while|the|propheci|defer
who|beariug|mani|spring|avhich|pretti|eiver|grew
she|could|not|be|content|until|she|fulli|knew
which|child|it|was|of|her|born|under|such|a|fate
as|should|in|time|be|rai|d|unto|that|high|estat|five hundred and forty
i|fain|would|have|you|think|that|this|was|long|ago
when|mani|a|river|now|tliat|furious|doth|flow
had|scurciili|learu|d|to|creep|and|therefor|she|doth|will
wise|arden|from|the|depth|of|her|abund|skill
to|tell|her|which|of|these|her|bill|it|was|she|meant|forty-five
to|satisfi|her|will|the|wizard|answer|trent
for|as|a|skil|seer|the|age|forest|wist
a|more|than|usual|power|did|in|that|name|consist
which|thirti|dot|import|by|which|she|thus|divin|d
there|should|be|found|in|her|of|fish|thirti|kind|sixty
ticiil|siguificth|thirti
the|twelfth|song|one hundred and thirty-three
and|thirti|abbey|great|in|place|fat|and|rank
should|in|succeed|time|be|build|on|her|bank
and|thirti|sever|stream|from|mani|a|sundri|avay
unto|her|great|should|their|watri|tribut|pay
this|moreland|great|lik|d|yet|in|that|tender|love|five hundred and fifty-five
which|she|had|ever|born|unto|her|darl|dove
she|could|have|wish|d|it|his|becaus|the|dainti|grass
that|grow|upon|his|bank|all|other|doth|surpass
but|subject|he|must|be|as|sow|which|from|her|spring
at|stafford|meeteth|penh|which|she|along|doth|bring|five hundred and sixty
to|trent|by|tixal|grac|d|the|aston|aiicient|seat
jfhich|oft|the|miis|hath|found|her|safe|and|sweet|retreat
the|noll|owner|now|of|which|helovkl|place
good|fortun|them|and|their|ivith|honour|titl|grace
may|heaven|still|bless|that|hous|till|happi|flood|you|see|five hundred and sixty-five
yourselv|more|grac|d|by|it|than|it|by|you|can|be
whose|bounti|still|my|muse|so|freeli|shall|confess
as|when|she|shall|ivant|tvord|her|sign|shall|it|express
so|blyth|bear|easli|down|towrd|her|dear|sovereign
trent
but|noth|in|the|world|give|moreland|such|content|five hundred and seventy
as|her|own|darl|dove|his|confluenc|to|behold
of|flood|in|sundri|strain|as|crankl|manyfold
the|first|that|lend|him|forc|of|whose|meandr|way
and|labyrinthlik|turn|as|in|the|moor|she|stray
she|first|receiv|d|her|name|by|grow|strang|mad|five hundred and seventy-five
oergon|with|love|of|hans|a|dapper|moorland|lad
who|near|their|crystal|spring|as|in|those|wast|they
play|d
bewitch|d|the|wanton|heart|of|that|delici|maid
which|instant|was|turn|d|so|much|from|be|coy
that|she|might|seem|to|dote|upon|the|moorish|boy|five hundred and eighty
who|close|stole|away|perceiv|her|intent
with|his|dear|lord|the|dove|in|quest|of|princ|treiit
one hundred and thirty-four|polyolbion
with|mani|other|flood|as|churnei|in|his|train
tliat|draweth|dunsmm|on|with|yendon|then|clear|tain
that|come|alon|to|dove|of|which|ilans|one|would|be|5s5
and|for|himself|he|fain|of|manyfold|would|free
think|this|amor|nymph|by|some|mean|to|beguil
he|close|under|earth|convey|his|head|awhil
but|when|the|river|fear|some|polici|of|his
and|her|belov|ilans|immedi|doth|miss|five hundred and ninety
distract|in|her|cours|improvid|rash
she|oft|against|the|cleev|her|crystal|front|doth|dash
now|forward|then|again|she|backward|seem|to|bear
as|like|to|lose|herself|by|straggl|here|and|there
eans|that|this|while|suppo|d|him|quit|out|of|her|sight
no|sooner|thrust|his|head|into|the|cheer|light|five hundred and ninety-six
but|manyfold|that|still|the|runaway|doth|watch
him|ere|he|was|awar|about|the|neck|doth|catch
and|as|the|angri|eans|would|lain|her|hold|remov
they|uggl|tumbl|down|into|their|lord|the|dove|six hundred
thus|though|th|industri|muse|hath|been|imploy|d|so
long
yet|is|she|loth|to|do|poor|littl|smesfal|wrong
that|from|her|j|i|will|fume|s|spring|near|hampton|pli|to|pour
the|wealth|she|there|receiv|into|her|friend|stoivr
nor|shall|the|littl|bourn|have|becaus|the|ius|to|blame|eo
from|these|staffordian|heath|that|strive|to|catch|the|tame
whom|she|in|her|next|song|shall|greet|with|mirth|cheer
so|happili|arriv|d|now|in|her|nativ|shire
illust
akixg|her|progress|into|the|land|the|muse|come
southwai|d|from|cheshir|into|adjoin|staffonl
and|that|part|of|shropshir|which|lie|in|the
english|side|east|from|severn
ninety-six|ami|into|lesser|stream|the|spacious|current|cut
in|that|rage|devast|over|this|kingdom|by|the
dane|they|had|gotten|diver|of|their|ship|fraught|with
provis|out|of|thame|into|the|river|ley|which|divid
middlesex|and|essex|some|twenti|mile|from|london|alfr
hold|his|tent|near|that|territori|especi|to|prevent
their|spoil|of|the|instant|harvest|observ|that|by|divid
the|river|then|navig|between|them|and|thame|their
ship|would|be|ground|and|themselv|bereft|of|what
confid|their|navi|had|promis|them|he|thought|it
and|did|it|by|part|the|water|into|three|channel|the
dane|betook|themselv|to|flight|their|ship|left|as|a|prey
to|the|lotulon
one hundred and twenty|her|lord|s|imbrac|vow|d|she|never|more|would|know
this|alur|left|his|son|edward|successor|and|among
other|children|this|eljl|or|ethcljl|his|daughter|marri
one hundred and thirty-six|polyolbion
to|etmr|earl|of|mercjand|of|alfrectk|worth|and
troublous|reign|becaus|here|the|author|leav|him|i|offer
you|these|of|an|ancient|english|wit
noulita|innata|tibl|pohitati|honorem
armipoten|alfred|dcdit|jyromtasqii|lahorem
peijjehmiivjii|labor|nomen|cui|mixta|dolori
gcmdia|semper|erant|spes|semper|mixta|timori
si|modo|victor|era|ad|crastina|bella|paveba
si|modo|vidus|era|ad|crastina|bella|paraba
cui|vest|siidor|jugi|cui|sicca|cruor
tincta|jugi|quantum|sit|ami|regnar|pirobdrunt
huntingdon|cite|these|as|his|own|and|if|he|deal|plain
with|us|i|doubt|it|becaus|his|ms|epigram|which
make|in|some|copi|the|eleventh|and|twelfth|of|his|histori
are|of|most|differ|strain|and|seem|made|when|apollo
was|either|angri|or|had|not|leisur|to|overlook|them|he
show|his|muse|as|also|in|anoth|written|by|him|upon
edgar|begin|auctor|opum|vindex|scelerum|largitw|hono
rum|dc|in|that|still|declin|time|of|learn|s|state
worthi|of|much|preced|of|elliclfl|in|jfilliam|of
3ialmeshuri|is|the|latin|of|this|english|she|was|the|love|of
the|subject|fear|of|the|enemi|a|icoman|of|a|mighti|heart|have
onc|endur|the|grievous|fain|of|childbirth|ever|afterward
deni|her|husband|those|sweeter|desir|protest|that|yield
ing|indulg|toward|a|pleasur|have|so|much|consequ
pain|was|unseem|in|a|king|s|daughter|she|was|buri|at
s|peter|s|in|glocest|her|name|loaden|by|jnionk|with
number|of|her|excel
one hundred and twenty-five|and|constantin|their|king|an|hostag|hither|hronght
after|he|had|taken|wale|and|scotland|as|our|historian
say|from|lloiccl|malmesburi|call|him|ludwal|and|con
the|tjfelft|song|one hundred and thirty-seven
siantln|he|restor|present|their|kingdom|caffirm
that|it|iva|more|for|his|majestij|to|make|a|king|than|he|one
the|scottish|stori|are|not|agre|here|with|our
against|whom|buchanan|storm|for|affirm|what|i|see|not
how|he|is|so|well|abl|to|confut|as|they|to|justifi|and
for|matter|of|that|natur|i|rather|send|you|to|the|collec
tion|in|ed|i|by|thoma|of|jfalsingham|and|thenc|for|the
same|and|other|to|edw|hall|s|hen|viii
three hundred and fifty-six|a|neptun|whose|proud|sail|the|british|ocean|swejpt
that|flower|and|delight|of|the|english|world|in|whose
birthtim|s|dunstan|as|is|said|at|glastenhuri|heard|this
angel|voicef
sto|holn|church|mxts|to|the|sortj|aw|ts|vhort|miu|hlis
33tt|thulhc|chiltj|time|that|nouthc|jjborc|is
among|his|other|innumer|benefit|and|royal|care|had
a|navi|of|three thousand, six hundred|sail|which|by|tripartit|divis|in|the
east|west|and|northern|coast|both|defend|what|was
subject|to|pirat|rapin|and|so|made|strong|his|own
nation|against|the|enemi|invas
three hundred and fifty-eight|by|cruel|stepdam|s|hate|to|death|tea|last|done
edgar|had|by|one|woman|his|greatest|stain|show
themselv|in|this|varieti|and|unlaw|obtain|of|lust
sensual|as|stori|will|tell|you|in|that|of|earl|ethel|wald
the|nun|ifulfrith|and|the|young|lass|of|andev|call
egelfl|surnam|ene|daughter|to|odmer|a|great|nobl
man|edward|and|by|queen|elfrith|daughter|to|orgar
earl|of|devonshir|ethclr|of|some|seven|year|age|at|his
death|that|egelfi|ava|a|profess|nun|some|have
nine hundred and twenty-six|one|hector|boeth|lib|eleven|et|buchanan|hist|six|reg|eighty-five
t|rob|glocestrcn|x|oxaa|say|four thousand
two|ex|osberno|in|vitd|duustan|fox|eccl|hist|four
one hundred and thirty-eight|polyolbion
argu|and|so|make|efheh|the|onli|legitim|heir|to|the
crown|nor|do|i|think|that|except|ajfrith|he|was|marri
to|anj|of|the|ladi|on|whom|he|got|children|edward|was
anoint|king|for|in|those|day|was|that|use|of|anoint
among|the|saxon|princ|and|began|in|king|alfr|but
not|without|dislik|grudg|of|his|stepmoth|s|faction
which|had|nevertheless|in|substanc|what|his|vain|name
onli|of|king|pretend|but|her|bloodi|hate|bred|out|of
womanish|ambit|strain|to|everi|point|of|sovereignti
not|thus|satisfi|compel|in|her|this|cruelti|king
edicard|not|suspect|her|dissembl|purpos|with|simpl
kind|of|an|open|natur|weaii|after|the|chase|in|fur
hedc|isl|in|dorsetshir|without|guard|or|attend|visit
her|at|corf|castl|she|under|sweet|word|and|salut
kiss|palliat|her|hellish|design|entertain|him|but
while|he|be|veri|hot|and|thirsti|without|imagin|of
treason|was|in|pledg|her|she|or|one|of|her|appoint
servantsjt|stab|the|innoc|king|his|corps|within
littl|space|expir|it|last|breath|was|buri|at|jvarham
thenc|afterward|by|alfer|earl|of|mercland|translat|into
shaftsburi|which|as|to|the|second|song|i|note|was|herebi
for|a|time|call|s|edivard|thus|did|his|brotherinlaw
ethelr|accord|to|wick|elfrith|s|cruel|and|traitor
project|succeed|him|as|of|constantin|corronymm|the
grech|so|of|this|ethelr|is|affirm|that|in|his|holi
tinctur|he|abus|the|font|with|natur|excrement|which
made|s|dunstan|then|christen|him|angrili|exclaim
per|deum|et|matrem|ejus|ignani|homo|crltx|some|ten|year
of|age|was|he|when|his|brother|edward|was|slain|and|out
of|childish|affect|wept|for|him|bitter|which|his
mother|extrem|dislik|be|author|of|the|murther
one|anointefl|princ|seventy-eight
t|vide|malmesb|lib|two|cap|nine|et|huntingdon|hist|five
two|malmesl|lib|de|pontillc|two
by|jod|and|his|mother|lie|will|be|a|sloven|fellow
the|twelfth|song|one hundred and thirty-nine
onli|for|his|sake|most|cruelli|beat|him|herself|with|an
hand|of|wax
cankicii|long|ank|tolo
fi|co|m|bilcutlr|nogljt|ai|t|ian|at|ijii|bet|i|gluoluc|t
mar|tijoru|tijt|cljilo|aftcrluaiu|ucf|ijfu|mon|as|ije|iua5
mas|tlje|idorslc|luan|ijc|vitx|cantjlcn|bof|tljis|cas
but|i|have|read|it|affirm|that|ethelr|never|would|en
dure|ani|wax|candl|becaus|he|had|seen|his|mother|un
merci|avith|them|whip|the|good|s|eclicard|it|is|not
worth|one|of|the|candl|avhich|be|the|truer|i|inclin|to
the|first|to|expiat|all|she|afterward|built|tavo|nun
neri|one|at|werwel|the|other|at|ambreshuri|and|by|all
mean|of|penit|and|satisfact|as|the|doctrin|then
direct|endeavour|her|freedom|out|of|this|horribl
oflfenc
three hundred and seventy|and|in|one|night|the|throat|of|all|the|danish|cut
histori|not|this|place|must|inform|the|reader|of|more
particular|of|the|danca|and|let|him|see|to|the|first|song
but|for|this|slaughter|i|thus|eas|his|inquisit|ethel
red|after|multitud|of|miseri|long|continu|through
their|exact|and|devast|be|so|larg|that|sixteen
shire|had|endur|their|cruel|and|even|conquer|spoil
in|the|twentythird|of|his|reign|strengthen|avith|pro
voke|hope|ground|on|allianc|avhich|by|marriag
with|emma|daughter|of|richard|i|duke|of|normxindi|he
had|with|his|neighbour|potent|sent|privi|letter|into
everi|place|of|note|where|the|dane|by|truce|peaceabl|re
side|to|the|englih|command|them|all|as|one|on|the
selfsam|day|and|hour|appoint|the|day|was|s|brictius
that|is|the|13th|of|novemb|sudden|to|put|them|as|re
rob|glocostretisi|she|f|feet|iu|woe|j|saw
two|vit|s|edwardi|apud|ranulph|cestren|lib|six|one thousand and two
one hundred and forty|polyolbion
spectiv|occas|best|fit|to|fire|or|sword|whic|was
perform
a|chronolog|order|and|descent|of|the|king|here
includ|in|jfrekin|s|song
anno|chrlsti
eight hundred|egbert|son|to|inegild|other|call|him|allimund
grandchild|to|king|lie|after|him|scarc|ani
none|long|had|the|name|of|king|in|the|isl|but
governor|or|earl|the|common|titl|be
duce|comitc|consul|and|such|like|avhich|in
some|writer|after|the|conquest|were|indiffer
name|and|jfiulam|the|first|is|often|call
earl|of|normandi
eight hundred and thirty-six|ethehdph|son|to|eglcrt
eight hundred and fifty-five|ethelhald|and|ethelhert|son|to|ethelulph|di
vide|their|kingdom|accord|to|their|father|s
testament
eight hundred and sixty|ethelhert|alon|after|etlielhakv|death
eight hundred and sixty-six|ethclr|third|son|of|ethelulph
eight hundred and seventy-one|alfr|youngest|son|to|ethelulph|brought|up
at|rome|and|there|in|eihelr|s|lifetim
anoint|by|pope|leo|iv|as|in|omin|hope
of|his|futur|kingdom
nine hundred and one|edward|i|surnam|in|stori|senior|son|to
alfr
nine hundred and twenty-four|athclstan|eldest|son|to|edioard|by|egwin|a
shepherd|s|daughter|but|to|whom|beauti|and
nobl|spirit|deni|what|base|parentag|re
quir|she|befor|the|king|lay|with|her
see|to|the|last|sonp|licfor|becaus|in|w|xt|ex|all|the|rest|were
at|last|confoundecl|these|are|most|common|written|king|of
wtflmx|although|in|siiyniori|as|it|were|or|as|the|civilian|call|it
uirirf|iroirrfi|all|the|other|provinc|except|some|northern|and
what|the|lane|unjust|possess|were|their|f|e|elder
the|tjfelfth|song|one hundred and forty-one
anno|christi
dream|you|rememb|that|of|olympia|and
mani|such|like|that|out|of|her|womb|did|shine
a|ioon|enlighten|all|eiujland|which|in|her
birth|athelstan|prove|true
nine hundred and forty|edmund|i|son|of|edward|by|ms|queen|ed
give
nine hundred and forty-six|edr|brother|to|edmund
nine hundred and fifty-five|ediri|first|son|of|edmimd
nine hundred and fifty-nine|edgar|second|son|of|edmund|honor|ac|dell
cice|anglorumf
nine hundred and seventy-five|edward|ii|son|to|edgar|hj|egeifl|mxtdey
by|his|stepmoth|alfrith|and|thenc|call
s|edward
nine hundred and seventy-nine|efhdr|it|son|to|edgar|by|queen|alfrith
daughter|to|orgar|earl|of|devonshir
one thousand and sixteen|edmund|ii|son|to|ethelr|by|his|first|avif
elfgiv|surnam|ironsid
between|him|and|cnut|or|canu|us|the|dane|son|to
swain|was|that|intend|singl|combat|so|by|their|own
particular|fortun|to|end|the|miseri|which|the|english
soil|bore|record|in|veri|great|charact|written|with
stream|of|her|children|s|blood|it|proper|here|break
off|for|the|composit|be|that|edmund|should|have
his|part|jvestsex|estsex|estangl|middlesex|surrey|kent
and|sussex|and|the|dane|who|durst|not|fight|it|out|but
first|move|for|a|treati|mercland|and|the|northern|terri
tori|edmund|die|the|same|year|some|report|was|that
traitor|edric|streona|earl|of|mercland|poison|him
leav|son|edmund|and|edward|but|they|were|by
danish|ambit|and|traitor|perjuri|of|the|unnatur
mak|enim|et|inepti|yeremunfli|sequax|hector|ill|boet|lib
eleven|qui|edin|et|e|ire|luin|ethelstano|scribit|proguato
f|the|miniou|of|his|subject
one hundred and forty-two
polyolbion
english|state|disinherit|and|all|the|kingdom|cast|under
ctiut|after|him|reign|his|son|harold|i|lightfoot|a|shoe
maker|s|son|but|dissembl|as|begotten|by|him|on|his
queen|alfgiv|then|with|harold|hardcnut|whom|he|had
by|his|wife|emma|king|ethelr|s|dowag|so|that|from
edmund|of|saxon|blood|to|whose|glori|wrelcbi|hath|dedi
cate|his|endeavour|and|therefor|should|transcend|his
purpos|if|he|exceed|theu|empir|until|edward|the|con
fessor|follow|hardcnut|son|to|ethelr|by|the|same
queen|emma|the|kingdom|continu|under|danish
princ
marian|scot|et|florent|wigorn
the|thirteenth|song
nineteen
the|akgument
this|song|our|shire|of|warwick|sound
reviv|old|arden|s|ancient|bound
through|mani|shape|the|muse|here|rove
now|sport|in|those|shadi|grove
the|tune|of|bird|oft|stay|to|hear
then|find|herd|of|lusti|deer
she|huntresslik|the|hart|pursu
and|like|a|hermit|walk|to|chuse
the|simpl|evrywher|that|grow
come|ancor|s|glori|next|to|show
tell|guy|of|warwick|s|famous|deed
to|th|vale|of|redhors|then|proceed
to|play|her|part|the|rest|among
there|shutteth|up|her|thirteenth|song
pon|the|midland|now|th|industri|muse|doth
fall
that|shire|which|we|the|heart|of|etiglaml|well
may|call
as|she|herself|extend|the|midst|wliich|is|decre
betwixt|s|mklmev|matrnt|and|jbariiobordr|tweed
warwickshir|the|middl|shire|of|england
one hundred and forty-four|polyolbion
brave|warwick|that|abroad|so|long|advanc|d|her|bear
by|her|illustri|earl|reno|vti|everywher
abov|her|neighbour|shire|which|alway|bore|her|head
ml|nativ|countri|then|ivhich|so|brave|qnrit|imst|bred
if|tlier|be|virtu|yet|remain|in|thi|earth
or|ani|good|of|thine|thou|breathdst|into|my|hirth|lo
accept|it|as|thine|own|lohilst|now|i|sing|of|thee
of|all|thi|later|brood|th|unworthiest|though|i|be
muse|first|of|arden|tell|whose|footstep|yet|are|found
in|her|rough|woodland|more|than|ani|other|ground
that|mighti|ardai|held|even|in|her|height|of|pride|fifteen
her|one|hand|touch|trent|the|other|serern|s|side
the|veri|sound|of|these|the|woodnymph|doth|awak
when|thus|of|her|ownself|the|ancient|forest|spake
my|mani|good|site|when|first|i|came|to|show
here|open|i|the|way|to|mine|own|overthrow|twenty
for|when|the|w|orld|found|out|the|fit|of|my|soil
the|grippl|avretch|began|immedi|to|spoil
my|tall|and|good|wood|and|did|my|ground|inclos
by|which|in|littl|time|my|bound|i|came|to|lose
when|britain|first|her|field|with|villag|had|fill|d|twenty-five
her|peopl|wex|still|and|want|where|to|build
they|oft|dislodg|d|the|hart|and|set|their|hous|where
he|in|the|broom|and|brake|had|long|time|made|his|lair
of|all|the|forest|here|within|this|mighti|isl
if|those|old|britan|then|me|sovereign|did|instyl|thirty
i|need|must|be|the|greatst|for|great|t|is|alon
that|give|our|kind|the|place|els|were|there|mani|a|one
for|pleasant|of|shade|that|far|doth|me|excel
but|of|our|forest|kind|the|qualiti|to|tell
we|equal|partak|with|woodland|as|with|plain|thirty-five
alik|with|hill|and|dale|and|everi|day|maintain
the|ancient|coat|of|that|earldom
diver|town|express|hernam|as|iknbj|in|arden|hampton
in|anieu|c
the|thirteenth|song|fourteen
the|sundri|kind|of|beast|upon|our|copious|wast
that|men|for|profit|breed|as|well|as|those|of|chase
here|arden|of|herself|cea|d|ani|more|to|show
and|with|her|sylvan|joy|the|muse|along|doth|go|forty
when|phcebm|lift|bis|liead|out|of|the|winter|s|wave
no|sooner|doth|the|earth|her|floweri|bosom|brave
at|such|time|as|the|year|bring|on|the|pleasant|spring
but|huntsup|to|the|morn|the|feathr|sylvan|sing
and|in|the|lower|grove|as|on|the|rise|knole|forty-five
upon|the|highest|spray|of|everi|mount|pole
those|quirist|are|perch|d|with|mani|a|speckl|breast
then|from|her|burnish|d|gate|the|good|glittr|east
gild|everi|lofti|top|which|late|the|humor|night
bespangl|had|with|pearl|to|pleas|the|morn|s|sight|so
on|which|the|mirth|quir|with|their|clear|open|throat
unto|the|joy|jiorn|so|strain|their|warbl|note
that|hill|and|valley|ring|and|even|the|echo|air
seem|all|compo|d|of|sound|about|them|everywher
the|throstel|with|shrill|shar|s|as|purpos|he|song|fifty-five
t|awak|the|lustless|sari|or|chide|that|so|long
he|was|in|come|forth|that|should|the|thicket|thrill
the|ifuosel|near|at|hand|that|hath|a|golden|bill
as|natur|him|had|mark|d|of|purpos|t|let|us|see
that|from|all|other|bird|his|tune|should|differ|be|oo
for|with|their|vocal|sound|they|sing|to|pleasant|may
upon|his|dulcet|pipe|the|merl|doth|onli|play
when|in|the|lower|brake|the|nirhtliigal|hardbi
in|such|lament|strain|the|joy|hour|doth|pli
as|though|the|other|bird|she|to|her|tune|would|draw|sixty-five
and|but|that|natur|by|her|allconstrain|law
each|bird|to|her|own|kind|this|season|doth|invit
they|els|alon|to|hear|that|charmer|of|the|niglit
the|more|to|use|their|ear|their|voic|sure|would|spare
of|all|bird|onli|the|biackbinl|whistleth
vol|eleven|ten
one hundred and forty-six|polyolbion
that|moduleth|her|tune|so|admir|rare|seventy
as|man|to|set|in|part|at|first|had|learn|d|of|her
to|philomel|the|next|the|linnet|we|prefer
and|by|that|warbl|bird|the|jfoodlarh|place|we|then
the|reedsparrow|the|kope|the|bedhreast|and|the|tfren
the|yeuoicpat|which|though|she|hurt|the|bloom|tree|seventy-five
yet|scarc|hath|ani|bird|a|finer|pipe|than|she
and|of|these|chant|fowl|the|goldfinch|not|behind
that|hath|so|mani|sort|descend|from|her|kind
the|tijdi|for|her|note|as|delic|as|they
the|laugh|hecco|then|the|counterfeit|jay|so
the|softer|with|the|shrill|some|hid|among|the|leav
some|in|the|taller|tree|some|in|the|lower|greav
thus|sing|away|the|morn|until|the|mount|sun
through|thick|exhal|fog|his|golden|head|hath|run
and|through|the|twist|top|of|our|close|covert|creep|eighty-five
to|kiss|the|gentl|shade|this|while|that|sweet|sleep
and|near|to|these|our|thick|the|wild|and|fright|herd
not|hear|other|nois|but|this|of|chattr|bird
feed|fair|on|the|laund|both|sort|of|seasontd|beer
here|walk|the|state|lie|the|freckl|fallow|there|oo
the|bud|and|lusti|stag|amongst|the|bascal|strew|d
as|sometim|gallant|spirit|amongst|the|multitud
of|all|the|beast|which|we|for|our|veneri|name
the|hart|amongst|the|rest|the|hunter|s|noblest|game
of|which|most|princ|chase|sith|none|did|eer|report|ninety-five
or|by|descript|touch|t|express|that|wondrous|sport
yet|might|have|well|beseem|d|tli|ancient|nobler|song
to|our|old|arden|here|most|fit|it|belong
yet|shall|she|not|invok|the|muse|to|her|aid
but|thee|diana|bright|a|goddess|and|a|maid|loo
in|mani|a|hugegrown|wood|and|mani|a|shadi|grove
which|oft|hast|born|thi|bow|great|huntress|us|d|to|rove
of|hunt|or|chase
tbe|tuinteenth|sokg|one hundred and forty-seven
at|mani|a|cruel|beast|and|with|thi|dart|to|pierc
the|lion|panther|ounc|the|bear|and|tiger|fierc
and|follow|thi|fleet|game|chast|mighti|forest|s|queen
with|thi|dishevel|d|nymph|attir|d|in|youth|green|iog
about|the|laund|hast|scour|d|and|wast|both|far|and|near
brave|huntress|but|no|beast|shall|prove|thi|quarri|here
save|those|the|best|of|chase|the|tall|and|lusti|ecd
the|stag|for|good|shap|and|stateli|of|head|no
is|fittst|to|hunt|at|forc|for|whom|when|with|his|hound
the|labour|hunter|tuft|the|thick|unbarbdd|ground
where|harbour|d|is|the|hart|there|often|from|his|feed
the|dog|of|him|do|find|or|thorough|skil|heed
the|huntsman|by|his|slot|t|or|break|earth|perceiv|one hundred and fifteen
or|entr|of|the|thick|by|press|of|the|greav
where|he|hath|gone|to|lodg|now|when|the|hart|doth
hear
the|oftenbellow|hound|to|vent|his|secret|lair
he|rous|rusheth|out|and|through|the|brake|doth|drive
as|though|up|by|the|root|the|bush|he|would|rive|one hundred and twenty
and|through|the|cumbrous|thick|as|fear|he|make
he|with|his|branch|head|the|tender|sapl|shake
that|sprinkl|their|moist|pearl|do|seem|for|him|to|weep
when|after|goe|the|cri|with|yell|loud|and|deep
that|all|the|forest|ring|and|everi|neighbour|place|one hundred and twenty-five
and|there|is|not|a|hound|but|falleth|to|the|chase
eechat|with|his|horn|which|then|the|hunter|chear
whilst|still|the|lusti|stag|his|highpalm|d|head|upbear
his|bodi|show|state|with|unbent|knee|upright
express|froni|all|beast|his|courag|in|his|flight|one hundred and ten
but|when|th|approach|foe|still|follow|he|perceiv
that|he|his|speed|must|trust|his|usual|walk|he|leav
and|oer|the|champaiu|fli|which|when|th|assembl|find
a|descript|of|hunt|the|hart|the|tract|of|the|foot
one hundred and two
one|of|the|measur|in|wind|the|horn
one hundred and forty-eight|polyolbion
each|follow|as|his|hors|were|foot|with|the|wind
but|be|then|imbost|the|nobl|state|deer|iss
when|he|hath|gotten|ground|the|kennel|cast|arer
doth|beat|the|brook|and|pond|for|sweet|refresh|soil
that|serv|not|then|prove|if|he|his|scent|can|foil
and|make|amongst|the|herd|and|flock|of|shagwool|d
sheep
them|fright|from|the|guard|of|those|who|had|their|keep
but|when|as|all|his|shift|his|safeti|still|deni|i4i
put|quit|out|of|his|walk|the|way|and|fiillow|tri
whom|when|the|plowman|meet|his|team|he|letteth|stand
t|assail|him|with|his|goad|so|with|his|hook|in|hand
the|shepherd|him|pursu|and|to|his|dog|doth|hallow|i4
when|with|tempestu|speed|the|hound|and|huntsmen
follow
ttntil|the|nobl|deer|through|toil|bereav|d|of|strength
his|long|and|sinewi|leg|tlien|fail|him|at|length
the|villag|attempt|enrag|d|not|give|way
to|anyth|he|meet|now|at|his|sad|decay|one hundred and fifty
the|cruel|ravnous|hound|and|bloodi|hunter|near
this|noblest|beast|of|chase|that|vain|doth|but|fear
ome|bank|or|quickset|find|to|whic|his|haunch|oppo|d
lie|turn|upon|his|foe|that|soon|have|him|inclo|d
llie|churlishthro|hound|then|lioldiiig|him|at|bay|one hundred and fifty-five
and|as|their|cruel|fang|on|his|harsh|skin|they|lay
wit|his|sharppoint|head|he|dealeth|dead|wound
the|hunter|come|in|to|help|his|weari|hound
he|desprat|assail|until|oppress|d|by|forc
he|who|the|mourner|is|to|his|own|die|cors|i60
t|pon|tlie|ruthless|earth|his|precious|tear|let|us|fall
to|forest|that|belong|but|yet|this|is|not|all
with|solitud|what|sort|that|here|s|not|wondrous|rife
tlio|llarl|wccpeth|at|lii|ifi|his|tear|arc|held|to|be|precious
iu|niediciuo
the|thirteenth|song|one hundred and forty-nine
wherea|tlie|hermit|lead|a|sweet|retir|life
from|villag|replet|with|ragg|d|and|sweat|clown|i65
and|from|the|loathsom|air|of|smoki|citi|town
suppos|twixt|noon|and|night|the|sun|his|halfway|wrought
the|shadow|to|be|larg|by|his|descend|brought
who|with|a|fervent|eye|look|through|the|twyre|glade
and|his|dispers|ray|commixeth|with|the|shade|iro
exhal|the|milch|dew|which|there|had|tarri|long
and|on|the|ranker|grass|till|past|the|noonst|hong
when|as|the|hermit|come|out|of|his|home|cell
where|from|all|rude|resort|he|happili|doth|dvell
who|in|the|strength|of|yout|a|manatarm|hath|been|it
or|one|who|of|this|world|the|vile|have|seen
retir|him|from|it|quit|and|with|a|constant|mind
man|s|beastli|so|loth|that|fli|human|kind
the|black|and|darksom|night|the|bright|and|gladsom|day
indiff|rent|are|to|him|his|hope|on|god|that|stay|iso
each|littl|villag|yield|his|short|and|home|fare
to|gather|windfau|n|stick|his|greatst|and|onli|care
which|everi|age|tree|still|yieldeth|to|his|hre
this|man|that|is|alon|a|kmg|m|his|desir
by|no|proud|ignor|lord|is|base|overaw|d|iss
nor|his|fals|prais|affect|who|grossli|be|claw|d
stand|like|an|itchi|moyl|nor|of|a|pin|he|weigh
what|fool|abus|king|and|humor|ladi|rais
his|free|and|nobl|thought|neer|envi|at|the|grace
that|oftentim|is|given|unto|a|bawd|most|base|one hundred and ninety
nor|stir|it|him|to|think|on|the|impostor|vile
who|seem|what|he|is|not|doth|sensual|beguil
the|sottish|purblind|world|but|absolut|free
his|happi|time|he|spend|the|work|of|god|to|see
a|descript|of|the|afternoon
hermit|liav|oft|had|thuii|abod|byway|that|lie|through
forest
one hundred and fifty|polyolbion
in|those|so|sundri|herb|which|there|in|plenti|grow|one hundred and ninety-five
whose|sundri|strang|effect|he|onli|seek|to|know
and|in|a|littl|maund|be|made|of|osier|small
avhich|serveth|him|to|do|full|mani|a|thing|withal
he|veri|choic|sort|his|simpl|got|abroad
here|find|he|on|an|oak|rheumpurg|pdipod|two hundred
and|in|some|open|place|that|to|the|sun|doth|lie
he|fumitori|get|and|eie|bright|for|the|eye
the|yarroio|wherewith|he|stop|the|woundmad|gore
the|heal|tutsan|then|and|plantan|for|a|sore
and|hard|by|them|again|he|holi|vervaiii|find|two hundred and five
which|he|about|his|head|that|hath|the|megrim|bind
the|wonderwork|dill|he|get|not|far|from|these
which|curious|women|use|in|mani|a|nice|diseas
for|them|that|are|with|newt|or|snake|or|adder|stong
he|seeketh|out|an|herb|that|is|call|adderstong|two hundred and ten
as|natur|it|ordain|d|it|own|like|hurt|to|cure
and|sportiv|did|herself|to|niceti|inur
valerian|then|he|crop|and|purpos|doth|stamp
t|appli|unto|the|place|that|is|ail|with|the|cramp
as|centurij|to|close|the|wide|of|a|wound|two hundred and fifteen
the|belli|hurt|by|birth|by|mugwort|to|make|sound
his|chkhvced|cure|the|heat|that|in|the|face|doth|rise
for|physick|some|again|he|inward|ai|pli
for|comfort|the|spleen|and|liver|get|for|juic
pale|ilnrehouud|which|he|hold|of|most|esjjeci|use|two hundred and twenty
so|saxifrag|is|good|and|hartstmgm|for|the|stone
with|ylgrlmoinj|and|that|herb|we|call|s|john
to|him|that|hath|a|flux|of|shepherd|spars|he|give
and|mouseear|unto|him|whom|some|sharp|ruptur|griev
and|for|the|labour|wretch|that|is|troubl|with|a|cough
or|stop|of|the|breath|by|fleagm|that|is|hard|and|tough
campaiia|here|lie|crop|approv|wondrous|good|two hundred and twenty-seven
as|comfreij|unto|him|that|is|bruis|spit|blood
the|thirteenth|song|one hundred and fifty-one
and|from|the|fallingi|will|by|fiveleaf|doth|restor
and|melancholi|cure|by|sovereign|hellebor|two hundred and thirty
of|these|most|help|herb|yet|tell|we|but|a|few
to|those|unnumbr|sort|of|simpl|here|that|grew
which|just|to|set|down|even|bodon|short|doth|fall
nor|skil|gerard|yet|shall|ever|find|them|all
but|from|our|hermit|here|the|muse|we|must|inforc|two hundred and thirty-five
and|zealous|proceed|in|our|intend|cours
how|arden|of|her|rill|and|riveret|doth|dispos
by|alcesi|how|aim|to|ari|o|easli|flow
and|mild|be|mix|d|to|avon|hold|their|way
and|likewis|towrd|the|xorth|how|livelytrip|bhsa|two hundred and forty
t|attend|the|lustier|tame|is|from|her|fountain|sent
so|littl|cole|and|bhjtli|go|on|with|him|to|trent
his|tamivorth|at|the|last|he|in|his|way|doth|win
there|play|him|awhil|till|ancor|should|come|in
which|trifleth|twixt|her|bank|observ|state|so|slow|two hundred and forty-five
as|thou2|h|into|his|arm|she|scorn|d|herself|to|throw
yet|arden|will|d|her|tame|to|serv|her|on|his|knee
for|by|that|nymph|alon|they|both|should|honour|d|be
the|forest|so|much|fall|n|from|what|she|was|befor
that|to|her|former|height|fate|could|her|not|restor|j|two hundred and fifty
though|oft|in|her|behalf|the|genius|of|the|land
importuntd|the|heaven|with|an|auspici|hand
yet|grant|at|the|last|the|age|nymph|to|grace
they|by|a|ladi|s|birth|would|more|renown|that|place
than|if|her|wood|their|head|abov|the|hill|should|seat
and|for|that|purpos|first|made|coventri|so|great|two hundred and fifty-six
a|poor|thatch|d|villag|then|or|scarc|none|at|all
that|could|not|onc|have|dream|d|of|her|now|state|wall
and|thither|wise|brought|that|good|virginband
th|eleven|thousand|maid|chast|ursuhi|command|26o
whom|then|the|britan|king|gave|her|full|power|to|press
the|author|of|two|famous|herbal|ancor
one hundred and fifty-two|folyolbion
for|match|to|their|friend|in|brittani|the|less
at|whose|departur|thenc|each|by|her|just|bequest
some|special|virtu|gave|ordain|it|to|rest
avith|one|of|their|own|sex|that|there|her|birth|should|have
till|ful|of|the|time|which|fate|did|choic|save|2g6
until|the|saxon|reign|when|coventri|at|length
from|her|small|mean|regard|recov|state|and|strength
by|lcofric|her|lord|yet|in|base|bondag|held
the|peopl|from|her|mart|by|tollag|who|expel|d|two hundred and seventy
whose|duchess|which|desir|d|this|tribut|to|releas
their|freedom|often|begg|d|the|duke|to|make|her|ceas
told|her|that|if|she|would|his|loss|so|far|inforc
his|will|was|she|should|ride|stark|nak|d|upon|a|hors
by|daylight|through|the|street|which|certain|he|thought
in|her|heroic|breast|so|deepli|would|have|wrought|two hundred and seventy
that|in|her|former|suit|she|would|have|left|to|deal
but|that|most|princ|dame|as|one|devour|d|with|zeal
avent|on|and|by|that|mean|the|citi|clear|freed
the|first|jmrt|of|whose|name|godiva|doth|foreread|two hundred and eighty
th|first|syllabl|of|her|and|gooder|half|doth|soimd
for|by|agre|tvmds|great|matter|have|been|found
but|further|than|this|place|the|mysteri|extend
jvhat|arden|hud|begun|in|ancor|last|end
for|in|the|british|tongu|the|britan|could|not|find|zss
wherefor|to|her|that|name|of|ancor|was|assign
nor|yet|the|saxon|sinc|nor|time|to|come|had|known
but|that|her|be|here|was|by|this|name|foresliown
as|prophesi|her|for|as|the|first|did|tell
her|sirnam|so|again|doth|ancor|live|spell|o
her|christen|titl|ann|and|as|tjwse|virgin|there
did|sanctifi|that|place|so|holi|edith|here
a|reclus|long|time|liv|d|in|that|fair|ihbci|plac|d
which|alur|enrich|and|powlesworth|high|grac|d
a|princess|be|born|and|abbess|with|those|maid|two hundred and ninety-four
the|thirteenth|song|one hundred and fifty-three
all|nobl|like|herself|in|bid|of|their|bead
their|holi|bequeath|d|upon|her|to|descend
which|there|should|after|live|in|tohos|dear|self|shoidd|end
th|intent|of|ancor|s|name|her|coin|that|decre
as|her|her|place|of|birth|fair|coventri|tluit|freed|soo
but|whilst|about|this|tale|smooth|ancor|trifl|stay
unto|the|lustier|tame|as|loth|to|come|her|way
the|flood|intreat|her|thus|dear|brook|whi|dost|thou
wrong
our|mutual|love|so|much|and|tedious|prolong
our|mirth|marriagehour|for|which|i|still|prepar|three hundred and five
hast|to|my|broader|bank|my|joy|and|onli|care
for|as|of|all|my|flood|thou|art|the|first|in|fame
when|frank|thou|shalt|yield|thine|honour|to|my|name
i|will|protect|thi|state|then|do|not|wrong|thi|kind|three hundred and nine
what|pleasur|hath|the|world|that|here|thou|mayst|not|find
henc|muse|divert|thi|cours|to|dunsmor|by|that|cross
where|those|two|mighti|way|the|jvatl|and|the|foss
our|centr|seem|to|cut|the|first|doth|hold|her|way
from|dover|to|the|farthst|of|fruit|anglesey
the|second|south|and|north|from|michael|s|utmost|mount
to|cathness|which|the|furthst|of|scotland|we|account|three hundred and sixteen
and|then|proceed|to|show|how|avon|from|her|spring
by|newnham|fount|is|blest|and|how|she|blandish
by|dunsmor|drive|along|whom|sow|doth|first|assist
which|taketh|shirhurn|in|with|cune|a|great|while|miss|d
though|corentn|from|thenc|her|name|at|first|did|rais|thirty-two
now|flourish|with|fane|and|proud|pyramid
her|wall|in|good|repair|her|port|so|brave|built
her|hall|in|good|estat|her|cross|so|rich|gilt
as|scornin|all|the|town|that|stand|within|her|xiew|three hundred and twenty-five
yet|must|she|not|be|griev|d|that|cune|should|claim|her|due
one|the|hi|ihcross|suppos|to|bo|the|midst|of|england
two|see|to|the|sixteenth|soug|neivnham|well
otherwis|cunetr|that|is|the|tovvu|upou|cune
n
one hundred and fifty-four|polyolbion
towrd|jvanckk|with|this|train|as|avon|trip|along
to|giuicjiff|be|come|her|nymph|thus|brave|song
to|thee|renown|knight|continu|i|rais|we|owe
and|at|thi|hallow|tomb|thi|year|obiit|show|three hundred and thirty
who|thi|dear|pkilus|name|and|countri|to|advanc
leftst|ifarwick|s|wealthi|seat|and|sail|into|franc
at|tilt|from|his|proud|steed|duke|otton|threwst|to|ground
and|with|th|invalu|d|prize|of|blanch|the|beauteous|crown|d
the|almaln|emperor|s|heir|high|act|didst|there|achiev
as|lovain|thou|again|didst|valiant|reliev|three hundred and thirty-six
thou|in|the|soldan|s|blood|thi|worthi|sword|imbnidst
and|then|in|singl|fight|great|auierant|subdudst
t|was|thi|hercnuan|hand|which|happili|destroy|d
that|dragon|which|so|long|nortjunnhcrhnul|annoy|d|three hundred and forty
and|slew|that|cruel|boar|which|wast|our|woodland|laid
whose|tusk|turn|d|up|our|tilth|and|den|in|meadow|made
whose|shoulderblad|remain|at|coventri|till|now
and|at|our|humbl|suit|did|quell|that|monstrous|cow
the|passeng|that|us|d|from|dunsmorc|to|affright|three hundred and forty-six
of|all|our|eiulisk|yet|most|renown|knight
that|colehrond|overcamst|at|whose|amaz|full
the|dane|remov|d|their|camp|from|jfincl|tester|s|sieg|d|wall
thi|statu|guycliff|keep|the|gazer|s|eye|to|pleas
warwick|thi|mighti|arm|thou|english|hercul|three hundred and fifty
tliy|strong|and|massi|sword|that|never|was|control|d
which|as|her|ancient|right|her|astl|still|shall|hold
scarc|end|they|their|song|but|avon|s|wind|stream
by|jtanvick|entertain|the|highcomplect|d|leani
and|as|she|thenc|along|to|stratford|on|doth|strain|three hundred and fifty-five
receiveth|littl|ileil|the|next|into|her|train
then|taketh|in|tlie|stour|the|brook|of|all|the|rest
which|that|most|good|vale|of|iledjiors|loveth|best
a|valley|that|enjoy|a|veri|great|estat
yet|not|so|famous|held|as|smaller|by|her|fate|soo
the|tiiinthentii|song|one hundred and fifty-five
now|for|report|had|been|too|partial|in|her|prais
her|just|conceiv|grief|fair|ecdhms|thus|bewray
shall|everi|vale|be|heard|to|boast|her|wealth|one|and|i
the|needi|countri|near|that|with|my|corn|suppli
as|brave|as|the|best|shall|onli|i|endur|three hundred and sixty-five
the|dull|and|beast|world|my|glori|to|obscur
near|wayless|arden|s|side|sith|my|retir|d|abod
stood|quit|out|of|the|way|from|everi|common|road|one
great|en|sham|s|fertil|glebe|what|tongu|hath|not|ex
toll|d
as|though|to|her|alon|belong|d|the|garb|of|gold|sro
of|eever|s|batfuu|earth|men|seem|as|though|to|feign
report|in|what|store|she|multipli|her|grain
and|folk|such|wondrous|thing|of|ahbtiri|will|tell
as|thoudi|abound|anc|strove|her|burthen|d|womb|to|swell
her|room|amongst|the|rest|so|jriiilehors|is|decre|three hundred and seventy-five
she|want|no|set|forth|her|brave|pegasian|steed
the|wonder|of|the|west|exalt|to|the|sky
my|bedhors|of|you|all|contemn|onli|lie
the|fault|is|not|in|me|but|in|the|wretch|time
on|whom|upon|good|becaus|i|well|may|lay|the|crime|three hundred and eighty
which|as|all|nobl|thing|so|me|it|doth|neglect
but|when|th|industri|muse|shall|purchas|me|respect
of|countri|near|my|site|and|win|me|foreign|fame
the|eden|of|you|all|deserv|that|am
i|shall|as|much|be|prai|d|for|delicaci|then|3s5
as|now|in|small|account|with|vile|and|barbar|men
for|from|the|lofti|edg|that|on|my|side|doth|lie
upon|my|spacious|earth|who|cast|a|curious|eye
as|mani|good|seat|shall|in|my|compass|see
as|mani|sweet|delight|and|rariti|in|me|soo
as|in|the|greatest|vale|from|where|my|head|i|couch
one|the|sheaf
the|lljljull
one hundred and fifty-six|polyolbion
at|cotsirold|s|countri|s|foot|till|with|my|heel|i|touch
the|northhamptonian|field|and|fattn|pastur|where
i|ravish|everi|eye|with|my|intic|cheer
as|still|the|year|grow|on|that|cere|onc|doth|load|three|i5
the|full|earth|with|her|store|my|plenteous|bosom|strow|d
with|all|abound|sweet|my|frim|and|lusti|flank
her|braveri|then|display|with|meadow|huge|rank
the|thick|and|wellgrown|fog|doth|mat|my|smoother
slade
and|on|the|lower|lea|as|on|the|higher|hade|40o
the|dainti|clover|grow|of|grass|the|onli|silk
that|make|each|udder|strout|abund|with|milk
as|an|unlettr|man|at|the|desirtd|sight
of|some|rare|beauti|mov|d|with|infinit|delight
not|out|of|his|own|spirit|but|by|that|power|divin|four hundred and five
which|through|a|sparkl|eye|perspicu|doth|shine
feel|his|hard|temper|yfeld|that|he|in|passion|break
and|thing|beyond|his|height|transport|strang|speak
so|those|that|dwell|in|me|and|live|by|frugal|toil
when|they|in|my|defenc|are|reason|of|my|soil|4io
as|rapt|with|my|wealth|and|beauti|learntd|grow
and|in|wellfit|term|and|nobl|languag|show
the|lordship|in|my|land|from|liolright|which|remain
a|wit|of|that|day|we|won|ui|on|the|dane
to|tawcest|wellnear|twixt|which|they|use|to|tell|4is
of|place|which|they|say|do|llumnei|self|excel
of|basset|they|dare|boast|and|give|wormlighton|prize
as|of|that|fertil|flat|by|bisliopton|that|lie
for|show|of|my|bound|if|men|may|right|guess
by|my|continu|form|which|best|doth|me|express|four hundred and twenty
on|either|of|my|side|and|by|the|rise|ground
the|bound|of|the|vale|of|redhors
a|simil|of|tlu|place|and|puoitl
wondrous|fruit|jjlace|in|the|vale
the|thirteenth|song
one hundred and fifty-seven
which|in|one|fashion|hold|as|my|most|certain|mound
in|length|near|thirti|mile|i|am|discern|d|to|be
thns|eedhms|end|her|tale|and|i|therewith|agre
to|finish|here|my|song|the|muse|some|eas|doth|ask|four hundred and twenty-five
as|weari|with|the|toil|in|this|her|serious|task
illustk
mxxo|tlie|heart|of|england|and|jfak|the|muse
here|is|enter|that|is|ifarwickshir|her|nativ
countri|whose|territori|you|might|call|middl
emjl|for|here|was|that|part|of|mercland|spoken
of|in|stori|for|equal|of|distanc|from|the|inarm
ocean
six|by|her|illustri|earl|renmon|everyivher
permit|to|yourself|credit|of|those|loaden|with|antiqu
fabl|as|ginj|of|whom|the|author|in|the|twelfth|son
and|here|present|morliid|and|such|like|and|no|more|tes
timoni|might|be|given|to|exceed|but|more|sure|justifi
cation|hereof|is|in|those|great|princ|henri|beauchamp
earl|of|jfaiwick|and|prcecom|anglk|as|the|record|call
him|under|hen|vii|and|richard|nevil|make|it|as|it
were|his|gain|to|crown|and|depos|king|in|that|bloodi
dissens|twixt|the|white|and|lie|lios
fifteen|that|mighti|arden|held
what|is|now|the|woodland|in|ifanoichihir|was|hereto
fore|part|of|a|larger|aveald|or|forest|call|ardei|the
relic|of|whose|name|in|dene|of|monnmithshir|and|that
chief|earl|of|eikjland
one|iarl|rot|twenty-three|hen|six|ap|cam
the|thirteenth|song|one hundred and fifty-nine
ardvenna|or|la|forest|dardenn|by|henault|and|lioxm
bourg|show|likelihood|of|interpret|of|the|yet|use
english|name|of|ivoodland|and|wherea|in|old|inscrip
tion|diana|nemorensi|with|other|addit|hat|been
found|among|the|latin|the|like|seem|to|be|express|in
an|old|marbl|now|in|itahj|graven|under|domitian|in
part|thus
dis|manibv
q|caesiv|q|f|clavd
atilianv|sacerdo
deana|ardvinnaet
that|comprehens|larg|which|this|arden|onc|ex
tend|befor|ruin|of|her|wood|make|the|author|thus
limit|her|with|severn|and|trent|by|reason|of|this|her
great|join|with|antiqu|he|also|made|choic|of
this|place|for|descript|of|the|chase|the|english|simpl
and|hermit|as|you|read|in|him
two hundred and fifty-nine|and|thither|wiselg|brought|that|good|virgin|band
suffici|justif|of|make|a|poem|may|be|from
tradit|which|the|author|here|use|but|see|to|the
eighth|song|where|you|have|this|incred|number|of
virgin|ship|at|london|nor|skill|it|much|on|which
you|bestow|your|faith|or|if|on|neither|their|request|as
the|genius|prayer|are|the|author|s|own|fiction|to|come
to|express|the|worth|of|his|nativ|soil|s|citi
two hundred and sixty-nine|by|leofriqu|jier|lord|yet|in|base|bondag|held
the|ensu|stori|of|this|leofriqu|and|godiva|was|under
the|confessor|i|find|it|report|in|matthew|of|jtest
hubert|goltz|thesaur|in|ari|diana|of|the|wood
juli|jacobon|ap|iaul|m|rul|cosmog|part|two|lib|three|cap|eleven
t|to|the|separ|soul|q|cmius|c|priest|of|diana|of|aiden
or|surnam|anlen|about|one thousand and fifty
one hundred and sixty|polyolbion
minster|that|nuda|eqmim|ascenden|crine|capiti|et|trim|dis
soken|corpus|suiim|totum|prceter|crura|candidissima|hide|vela
vit|this|leoffupt|btiri|at|coventri|was|earl|of|leicest
not|chester|as|some|i|will|took|it|by|turn|legecestra|be
inde|sometim|for|chester|of|old|call|urb|legiomim|as
to|the|eleventh|song|alreadi|which|is|without|scrupl
show|in|a|charter|of|the|manor|of|spcdding|in|lincoln
shire|made|to|jfuigat|abbot|of|crowland|begin|thus
ego|thoroldus|de|buckrnhal|coram|nomissimo|domino|rneo
leofrico|comit|leicestris|et|nohilissimd|comitissd|sua|do
miua|godiva|soror|med|et|cum|consensu|et|bond|volunt
domini|et|cognati|mei|comiti|algari|primogen|et|hmredi
eorum|donavi|c|this|algar|succeed|him|and|as|a
special|titl|govern|and|honour|this|earldom|was
therein|among|the|saxon|so|singular|that|it|was|hereditari
with|a|veri|long|pedigre|till|the|conquest|from|king
ethelhald|s|time|abov|three|hundr|year|in|malm
hurji|he|is|style|earl|of|hereford|and|inde|as|it|seem
had|larg|dominion|over|most|part|of|mereland|and|was|a
great|protector|of|good|king|edward|from|ambiti|god
iciu|s|faction|you|may|note|in|him|what|power|the|earl
of|those|time|had|for|grant|releas|or|impos
liberti|and|exact|which|sinc|onli|the|crown|hath
as|unsepar|annex|to|it|nay|sinc|the|norman|i
find|that|william|fitzoshern|earl|of|herefoixl|made|a|law
in|his|counti|ut|nullus|mile|pro|qualicmiqu|commisso|plus
septem|solidi|solvat|f|whicii|was|observ|without|contro
versi|in|mcdmesburi|s|tim|and|i|have|seen|origin|letter
of|protect|a|perfect|and|uncomuiunic|power|eoyal
by|that|great|princ|richard|earl|of|ioiter|and|cornwal
brother|to|hen|iii|sent|to|the|sheriff|of|ihdland|for|and
as|she|vras|on|horseback|her|hair|loos|hung|so|long|that|it
cover|all|her|l|zero|lj|to|her|thigh|inguliilius|hist|ful|five hundred and nineteen
power|of|earl|ancient|malniesl|de|gcst|reg|three
t|that|no|kujjh|should|be|amerc|abov|seven|shill
tre|mipteenth|bong|one hundred and sixty-one
in|behalf|of|a|nunneri|about|stanford|and|it|is|well
known|that|his|successor|edmund|left|no|small|token|of
such|supremaci|in|constitut|liberti|and|impos
subsidi|in|the|stannari|of|cornival|avith|more|such
like|extant|in|monument|but|whatsoev|their|power
heretofor|was|i|think|it|ceas|with|that|custom|of|their
have|the|third|part|of|the|king|s|profit|in|the|count
which|was|also|in|the|saxon|time|usual|as|appear|in
that|in|ipswich|regina|edeva|dim|part|hahuit|et|cora
guert|teriiam|norwich|reddebat|xx|lihra|bcgi|et|corniil
x|lihra|of|the|borough|of|leic|it|profit|erant|ii
part|regi|tertia|comiti|et|oxford|reddebat|regi|xx
lihra|et|sex|scxtario|mcllis|comiti|verb|algaro|x|lihra
and|under|king|john|grfrey|eitzfet|earl|of|essex|and
william|le|marshal|earl|oistriguil|administrationem|suoruni
comitatuum|habebaiit|saith|iloveden|but|time|hath|with
other|part|of|govern|alter|all|this|to|what|ve|now
use
four hundred and fourteen|a|wit|of|that|day|we|won|upon|the|dane
he|mean|rollritch|stone|in|the|confin|of|warwick|and
oxfordshir|of|which|the|vulgar|there|have|a|fabul|tra
dition|that|they|are|an|armi|of|men|and|i|know|not|what
great|general|amongst|them|convert|into|stone|a|tale
not|have|his|superior|in|the|rank|of|untruth|but|upon
the|conceit|of|a|most|learn|man|the|muse|refer|it|to
some|battl|of|the|bane|about|time|of|rollo|s|piraci|and
incurs|and|for|her|countri|take|the|better|side|as
justifi|as|the|contrari|in|afiirm|the|day|to|the|engr
lib|vetust|monast|de|bello|ap|camd
lil|bomcsbai|in|scaccario
third|part|of|the|counti|profit|to|the|earl
see|to|the|eleventh|song
had|rule|of|their|counti|et|v|jo|carnoten|epist|26i
nicol|vicocom|easema
vol|ii|jl
one hundred and sixty-two|polyolbion
lish|but|to|suppos|this|a|monument|of|that|battl
fought|at|hochnorton|seem|to|me|in|matter|of|certainti
not|veri|probabl|i|mean|be|drawn|from|bolld|name
of|whose|stor|both|for|a|passag|in|the|last|song|and
here|permit|a|short|examin|the|norman|tradit
is|that|he|with|diver|other|dane|transplant|them
selv|as|well|for|dissens|twixt|him|and|his|king|as
for|new|seat|of|habit|arriv|here|had|some|skir
mish|with|the|englkh|defend|their|territori|and
soon|afterward|be|admonish|in|a|dream|aid|and
advis|by|king|athdstan|enter|sein|in|franc|wast
and|won|part|of|it|about|pari|baieux|elsewher|return
upon|request|by|embassag|to|assist|the|english|king
against|rebel|and|afterward|in|the|year|nine hundred and eleven|or|nine hundred and twelve|re
ceiv|his|dukedom|of|normandi|and|christian|his
name|of|boberf|avith|jegidia|or|gilla|for|wife|daughter|to
charl|surnam|the|simpl|as|to|the|fourth|song|i
have|accord|to|the|credit|of|the|stori|touch|it|but
how|came|such|habitud|twixt|athelstan|and|him|befor
this|nine hundred and twelve|when|as|it|is|plain|tliat|athelstan|was|not|king
till|nine hundred and twenty-four|or|near|that|i|oint|neither|is|ani|concord
twixt|ylthelstan|and|this|charl|whose|kingdom|was|taken
from|him|by|bodvlph|duke|of|burgnndi|two|year|befor
our|king|bthvard|i|of|the|saron|die|in|the|ninth
year|of|whose|reign|fall|under|nine hundred and six|was|that|battl|of
hochnoiion|so|that|unless|the|name|of|athelstan|be|mis
took|for|this|edivard|or|be|want|to|the|domin|year
of|tlios|twentytwo|of|the|dionysian|calcul|whereof|to
the|fourth|song|i|sec|no|mean|to|make|their|stori|stand
with|itself|nor|our|monk|in|whom|most|of|them|write
inquisit|in|the|norman|stori|part|touch|to|the|fourth
janto
fjuil|gcmeticen|de|ducib|norm|two|cap|four|ct|seqq|thorn|de
wawmnhmii|in|hypotlig|keust|secundum|quo|in|juantum|ad
chronologicam|rationem|spectat|idcriquc|alii
the|thirteenth|song|1g3
about|the|norman|time|more|mention|would|have|been
of|rouo|ancestor|to|the|conqueror|and|his|act|here|had
they|known|ani|certainti|of|his|name|or|war|which|i
rather|guess|to|have|been|in|our|maritim|part|than|in
land|unless|when|if|that|were|at|all|he|assist|king
athehtan|read|frodoard|and|the|old|annal|of|franc
written|nearer|the|suppos|time|and|you|will|scarc|find
him|to|have|been|or|els|there|under|some|other|name
as|godfrey|which|some|have|conjectur|to|be|the|same
with|liollo|you|may|see|in|inuius|what|uncertainti|if
not|contrarieti|were|in|norman|tradit|of|this|matter
and|i|make|no|question|but|of|that|unknown|nation|so
much|mistak|hath|been|of|name|and|time|that|scarc
ani|undoubt|truth|therein|now|can|justifi|itself|for
observ|but|what|is|here|deliv|and|compar|it|with
them|which|say|in|nine hundred and ninety-eight|boho|was|overthrown|at|charir|by
eichard|duke|of|burgundi|and|ebal|earl|of|bolter|assist
ing|jvalzelm|bishop|of|that|citi|and|my|cjuestion|is
where|have|you|hope|of|reconcili|except|onli|in
equivoc|of|name|for|plain|hade|godfrey|hroruc
and|other|if|none|of|these|were|the|same|all|dane|had
to|do|and|that|with|dominion|in|franc|about|this|age
wherein|it|is|further|report|that|robert|earl|of|fari
and|in|some|sort|a|king|twixt|charl|and|rodidph|gave|to
certain|norman|that|had|enter|the|land|at|loir|they
first|enter|there|in|sss|all|littl|bretagn|and|nant
and|this|in|nine hundred and twenty-two|wiiich|agre|with|that|gift|of|the|same
tract|to|rollo|by|charl|littl|better|than|harshest|discord
and|so|doth|that|of|rollo|s|be|aid|by|the|english
king|and|in|leagu|with|him|against|the|french|with
anoth|receiv|truth|which|is|that|charl|was|by|mai
one|ita|quijara|apuil|p|emilium|hist|franc|three|juem|ile|hac|re
vide|et|polydor|cjusdoiu|se|iuacein|hist|five
floren|wigorn|pag|eight hundred and eighty-five|et|roger|hoveden|part|one|fi|l|two hundred and forty-one
frodoard|presbyt|iimial|frauc|ileicherspergen
one hundred and twelve
one hundred and sixty-four|polyolbion
riag|with|edgith|of|the|english|king|s|loin|soninlaw|to
edv|ard|and|brotherinlaw|to|athclstan|in|whose|protec
tion|here|lew|afterward|the|fourth|was|while|rodulph
of|burgundi|held|the|crown|for|that|unmann|homag
also|spoken|of|to|the|fourth|song|by|one|of|rouo|s|knight
it|is|report|by|malmcshuri|and|other|to|be|done|hy|hollo
himself|and|touch|that|egidia|wife|to|hollo|the|judi
cious|french|historiograph|p|emilius|from|whom|the
italian|polydor|had|mani|odd|piec|of|his|best|context
tell|clear|that|she|was|daughter|to|lothar|king|of|po
man|and|given|by|his|cousin|charl|the|gross|to|godfrey
king|of|norman|with|sjilltgtrtcii|that|is|neustria|about
eight hundred and eighty-six|and|imagin|that|the|norman|historian|were|deceiv
by|equivoc|of|name|mistak|charl|the|simpl|for
charl|the|gross|live|near|one|time|as|also|that|they
find|egidia|a|king|s|daughter|be|inde|lothar|s
suppos|her|charl|the|simpl|this|make|me|think
also|that|of|godfrey|and|polio|hath|been|like|confus|of
name|but|both|time|reign|and|person|are|so|dis
turb|in|the|stori|that|be|insuffici|to|rectifi|the
contrarieti|i|leav|you|to|the|liberti|of|common|report
ovinia|dicta|p|milio
membran|vetust|ccenob|floriacen|edit|a|p|pithjeo
the|fourteenth|song
ten
the|argument
her|sundri|strain|the|muse|to|prove
now|sing|of|home|countri|love
what|moan|th|old|herdsman|clent|doth|make
for|his|coy|woodnymph|fecknham|s|sake
and|how|the|nymph|each|other|greet
when|avon|and|brave|severn|meet
the|vale|of|eushain|then|doth|tell
how|far|the|vale|do|hill|excel
ascend|next|fair|cot|wold|s|plain
she|revel|with|the|shepherd|swain
and|send|the|dainti|nymph|atvay
gainst|tame|and|isi|weddingday
t|length|attain|d|those|land|that|south|of|severn
lie
as|to|the|vari|earth|the|muse|doth|her|appli
poor|sheephook|and|plain|goad|she|mani|time
doth|sound
then|in|a|buskin|d|strain|she|instant|doth|bound
smooth|as|the|lowli|stream|she|soft|now|doth|glide|five
and|with|the|mountain|straight|contendeth|in|her|pride
now|back|again|i|turn|the|land|with|me|to|take
from|the|staffordlan|heath|as|stour|her|cours|doth|make
run|by|sturbridg|in|worstershir|toward|severn
16g|polyolbion
which|clent|from|his|proud|top|content|doth|view
but|yet|the|age|hill|immoder|doth|rue|lo
his|love|fednham|s|fall|and|doth|her|state|bemoan
to|pleas|his|amor|eye|whose|hke|the|world|had|none
for|from|her|veri|youth|he|then|an|age|hill
had|to|that|forestnymph|a|special|like|still
the|least|regard|of|him|who|never|seem|to|take|fifteen
but|suffreth|in|herself|for|salwarp|s|onli|sake
and|on|that|eiver|dote|as|much|as|chnt|on|her
xow|when|the|hill|perceiv|d|the|flood|she|would|prefer
all|pleasur|he|forsak|that|at|the|fullbagg|d|cow
or|at|the|curlfac|d|bull|when|vent|he|doth|low|twenty
or|at|th|unhappi|wag|which|let|their|cattl|stray
at|ninehol|on|the|heath|whilst|they|togeth|play
he|never|seem|to|smile|nor|ever|taketh|keep
to|hear|the|harmless|swain|pipe|to|his|graze|sheep
nor|to|the|carter|s|tune|in|whistl|to|his|team|twenty-five
nor|lend|his|listn|ear|onc|to|the|ambl|stream
that|in|the|even|calm|against|the|stone|doth|rush
with|such|a|murmur|nois|as|it|would|seem|to|hush
the|silent|mead|asleep|but|void|of|all|delight
remediless|drown|d|in|sorrow|day|and|night|thirty
nor|lkhj|his|alli|and|neighbour|doth|respect
and|therevith|be|charg|d|thus|answereth|in|effect
that|llrh|to|his|height|seem|d|slowli|but|to|rise
and|that|in|length|and|breadth|he|all|extend|lie
nor|doth|like|other|hill|to|sudden|sharp|mount|thirty-five
that|of|their|king|kind|they|scarc|can|him|account
though|by|his|swell|soil|set|in|so|high|a|place
that|malvaii|mighti|self|he|seemeth|to|outfac
whilst|clent|and|llcbj|thus|do|both|express|their|pride
as|salvxirp|slip|along|by|fccknham|s|shadi|side|forty
the|lickey|suppos|to|be|the|highest|ground|of|this|lale|not
be|a|mountain
the|fourteenth|song|sixteen
that|forest|him|afiect|in|wandr|to|the|jvijch
but|he|himself|by|salt|there|seek|to|enrich
his|fecknham|quit|forget|from|all|affect|free
but|she|that|to|the|flood|most|constant|mean|to|be
more|prodig|give|her|wood|to|those|strong|fire|forty-five
which|boil|the|sourc|to|salt|which|clent|so|much|admir
that|love|and|her|disdain|to|mad|him|provok
when|to|the|woodxymph|thus|the|jealous|mountain|spoke
fond|kymph|thi|twist|curl|on|which|were|all|my
care
thou|lettst|the|furnac|wast|that|miser|bare|so
i|hope|to|see|thee|left|which|so|dost|me|despis
avhos|beauti|mani|a|morn|have|blest|my|long|eye
and|till|the|weari|sun|sunk|down|unto|the|west
thou|still|my|object|wast|thou|onc|ray|onli|best
the|time|shall|quick|come|thj|grove|and|pleasant|spring
where|to|the|mirth|merl|the|warbl|mavi|sing|fifty
the|pain|labour|s|hand|shall|stock|the|root|to|burn
the|branch|and|bodi|spent|yet|could|not|serv|his|turn
which|when|most|wil|nymph|thi|chanc|shall|be|to|see
too|late|thou|shalt|repent|thi|small|regard|of|me|eo
but|salwarp|down|vomlfych|his|nimbler|feet|doth|pli
great|severn|to|attend|along|to|tewkshuri
with|other|to|partak|the|joy|that|there|is|seen
when|beauteous|avon|come|unto|her|sovereign|queen
here|down|from|eushaiit|s|vale|their|great|to|attend|cs
come|swdllat|sweep|in|which|cofsicohl|down|doth|send
and|garran|there|arriv|the|great|recours|to|see
where|thus|togeth|met|with|most|delight|glee
the|cheer|nymph|that|haunt|the|valley|rank|and|low
where|full|poinoiui|seem|most|plenteous|to|flow|ro
and|with|her|fruiteri|swell|by|fershor|in|her|pride
amongst|the|batful|mead|on|severn|s|either|side
the|salt|fountain|of|worcestershir|severn
one hundred and sixty-eight|polyolbion
to|these|their|confluent|flood|full|bowl|of|perri|brought
where|to|each|other|s|health|pass|d|mani|a|deepfetch|d
draught
and|mani|a|sound|carous|from|friend|to|friend|doth|go|seventy-five
thus|whilst|the|mellow|earth|with|her|own|juic|doth|flow
inflam|with|excess|the|lusti|pampr|vale
in|prais|of|her|great|self|thus|frame|her|glorious|tale
i|doubt|not|but|some|vale|enough|for|us|has|said
to|answer|them|that|most|with|base|us|upbraid|so
those|high|presumptu|hill|which|bend|their|utmost
us|onli|to|deject|in|their|inveter|spite|might
but|i|would|have|them|think|that|i|which|am|the|queen
of|all|the|i|v7|s7ival|and|so|have|ever|been
sinc|ggmer|s|giantbrood|inhabit|this|isl|eighty-five
and|that|of|all|the|rest|myself|may|so|enstyl
against|the|highest|hill|dare|put|myself|for|place
that|ever|threatn|heaven|with|the|austerest|face|forth
and|for|our|jirais|then|thus|what|fountain|send|they
that|find|a|iviv|s|name|though|of|the|smallest|worth|ninety
but|it|inval|itself|and|on|it|either|side|pride
doth|make|those|fruit|mead|which|with|their|paint
imbrod|his|proud|bank|one|whilst|in|lascivi|gyre
he|swift|sallieth|out|and|sudden|retir
in|sundri|work|and|trail|now|shallow|and|then|deep|sft
search|the|spacious|shore|as|though|it|meant|to|sweep
their|sweet|with|it|away|with|which|they|are|replet
and|men|first|build|town|themselv|did|wise|seat
still|in|the|bounteous|vale|whose|burthencd|jiastur|bear
the|most|abound|swath|whose|glebe|such|good|ear
as|to|the|weighti|sheaf|with|scyth|or|sickl|cut|one hundred and one
when|as|his|hardn|hand|the|labour|come|to|put
sink|him|in|his|own|sweat|which|it|but|hard|wield
and|on|the|cornstrew|d|land|then|in|the|stubbl|field
there|feed|the|herd|of|ncat|by|them|the|flock|of|sheep|io
the|fourteenth|song|1g9
seeldng|tlie|scattr|corn|upon|the|ridg|steep
and|in|the|furrow|by|where|cere|lie|much|spill|d
th|unwiek|lard|swine|his|maw|then|have|fill|d
lie|wallow|in|the|mire|thenc|abl|scarc|to|rise
when|as|those|monstrous|hill|so|much|that|us|despis|no
the|mountain|which|forsooth|the|lowli|valley|mock
have|noth|in|the|world|upon|their|barren|rock
but|greedi|clanibr|goat|and|coni|banish|d|quit
from|everi|fertil|place|as|rascal|that|delight
in|base|and|barren|plot|and|at|good|earth|repin|lis
and|though|in|winter|we|to|moistur|much|inclin
yet|those|that|be|our|own|and|dwell|upon|our|land
when|twixt|their|bur|stack|and|fuustuff|d|barn|they
into|the|softer|clay|as|easli|they|do|sink|stand
pluck|up|their|heavi|feet|with|lighter|spirit|to|think|one hundred and twenty
that|autumn|shall|produc|to|recompens|their|toil
a|rich|and|good|crop|from|that|unpleas|soil
and|from|that|envious|foe|which|seek|us|to|deprav
though|much|against|his|will|this|good|we|clear|have
ave|still|are|high|prai|d|and|honour|d|by|his|height|one hundred and twenty-five
for|who|will|us|survey|their|clear|and|judg|sight
may|see|us|thenc|at|full|which|els|the|searchingst|eye
by|reason|that|so|flat|and|level|we|lye
could|never|through|view|ourselv|nor|could|we|show
yet|more|avhat|lofti|hill|to|humbl|valley|owe|one hundred and thirty
and|what|high|grace|they|have|which|near|to|us|are|plac|d
in|breedon|may|be|seen|be|amor|imbrac|d
in|cinctur|of|mine|arm|who|though|he|do|not|vaunt
his|head|like|those|that|look|as|they|would|heaven|sup
plant
yet|let|them|wise|note|in|what|excess|pride|one hundred and thirty-five
he|in|my|bosom|sit|while|him|on|everi|side
with|my|delici|sweet|and|delic|i|trim
a|hill|iuviron|on|everi|side|with|the|vale|of|eiisham
one hundred and seventy|polyolbion
and|when|great|mdlrern|look|most|terribl|and|grim
he|with|a|pleas|brow|continu|doth|smile
here|breedon|have|heard|his|prais|all|the|while|uo
grew|insol|proud|and|doth|upon|him|take
such|state|as|he|would|seem|but|small|account|to|make
of|malvern|or|of|mein|so|that|the|avis|vale
to|his|instruct|turn|the|process|of|her|tale
t|avoid|the|greater|s|wrath|and|shun|the|meauer|s|hate|one hundred and forty-five
quoth|she|take|my|advic|abandon|idl|state
and|by|that|way|i|go|do|thou|thi|cours|contriv
give|other|leav|to|vaunt|and|let|us|close|thrive
whilst|idl|but|for|place|the|lofti|mountain|toil
let|us|have|store|of|grain|and|quantiti|of|soil|iso
to|wliat|end|serv|their|top|that|seem|to|threat|the|sky
but|to|be|rent|with|storm|whilst|we|in|safeti|lie
their|rock|but|barren|be|and|they|which|rash|climb
stand|most|in|envi|s|sight|the|fairest|prey|for|time
and|when|the|lowli|vale|are|clad|in|summer|s|green|one hundred and fifty-five
the|grisl|winter|s|snow|upon|their|head|is|seen
of|all|the|hill|i|know|let|mein|thi|pattern|be
who|though|his|site|be|such|as|seem|to|equal|thee
and|destitut|of|nought|that|ankn|him|can|yield
nor|of|th|especi|grace|of|mani|a|good|field|leo
nor|of|dear|clifford|s|seat|the|place|of|health|and|sport
which|mani|a|time|hath|been|the|luse|s|quiet|port
yet|brag|not|he|of|that|nor|of|himself|esteem
the|more|for|his|fair|site|but|richer|than|he|seem
clad|in|a|gown|of|grass|so|soft|and|wondrous|warm|one hundred and five
as|him|the|summer|s|heat|nor|winter|s|cold|can|harm
of|whom|i|well|may|say|as|i|may|speak|of|thee
from|either|of|your|top|that|who|beholdeth|me
to|paradis|may|think|a|second|he|had|found
if|ani|like|the|first|were|ever|on|the|ground|one hundred and seventy
her|long|and|zealous|speech|thus|eui|hmii|doth|conclud
the|fourteenth|song|one hundred and seventy-one
avhen|straight|the|activ|muse|industri|pursu|d
this|nobl|countri|s|prais|as|matter|still|did|rise
for|gloster|in|time|past|herself|did|high|prize
when|in|her|pride|of|strength|she|nourish|d|good|vine|ir
and|oft|her|care|repress|d|with|her|delici|wine
but|now|th|allcheer|sun|the|colder|soil|deceiv
and|us|here|towrd|the|pole|still|fall|southward
leav
so|that|the|sullen|earth|th|effect|thereof|doth|prove
accord|to|their|book|who|hold|that|he|doth|move|iso
from|his|first|zenith|s|point|the|becaus|we|feel|his|want
but|of|her|vine|depriv|d|now|gloster|learn|to|plant
the|peartre|everywher|whose|fruit|she|strain|for|juic
that|her|purst|perri|is|which|first|she|did|produc
from|worstcrshir|and|there|is|common|as|the|field|i85
which|natur|that|soil|in|most|abound|yield
but|the|labori|muse|which|still|new|work|assay
here|sallieth|through|the|slade|where|beauteous|seven
play
until|that|eiver|get|her|gioster|s|wish|sight
where|she|her|stream|divid|that|with|the|more|delight|i90
she|might|behold|the|town|of|which|she|is|avondr|proud
then|take|she|in|the|frome|then|cam|and|next|the|slrowd
as|thenc|upon|her|cours|she|wanton|doth|strain
suppos|then|herself|a|seagod|by|her|train
she|nejjtunelik|doth|float|upon|the|bracki|marsh|one hundred and ninety-five
avher|lest|she|should|becom|too|combersom|and|harsh
fair|mkldennod|a|nymph|long|honour|d|for|a|chase
contend|to|have|stood|the|highst|in|severn|s|grace
of|ani|of|the|driad|there|bordr|on|her|shore
with|her|cool|amor|shade|and|all|her|sylvan|store|two hundred
to|pleas|the|good|flood|imploy|her|utmost|power
suppos|the|proud|nymph|might|like|her|woodi|bower
but|severn|on|her|way|so|larg|and|headstrong|gre
one hundred and seventy-two|polyolbion
that|she|the|woodnymph|scorn|and|avon|doth|pursu
a|river|with|no|less|than|good|kingswood|crown|d|two hundred and five
a|forest|and|a|flood|by|either|s|f|ime|renown|d
and|each|with|other|s|pride|and|beauti|much|bewitch|d
besid|with|bristow|s|state|both|wondrous|enrich|d
which|soon|to|severn|sent|th|report|of|that|fair|road
so|burthen|still|with|barlc|as|it|would|overload|two hundred and ten
great|neptun|with|the|weight|whose|fame|so|far|doth|ring
when|as|that|mighti|flood|most|brave|flourish
like|theti|good|self|majest|glide
upon|her|spacious|breast|toss|the|surgeful|tide
to|have|the|river|see|the|state|to|which|she|grow|two hundred and fifteen
and|how|much|to|her|queen|the|beauteous|avon|owe
but|nobl|muse|proceed|immedi|to|tell
how|eushain|s|fertil|vale|at|first|in|like|fell|site
with|cotsivold|that|great|king|of|shepherd|whose|proud
when|that|fair|vale|first|saw|so|nourish|d|her|delight|two hundred and twenty
that|him|she|onli|lov|d|for|wise|she|beheld
the|beauti|clean|throughout|that|on|his|surfac|dwell|d
of|just|and|equal|height|two|bank|aris|which
grew|poor|as|it|should|seem|to|make|some|valley|rich
betwixt|them|thrust|out|an|elbow|of|such|height|two hundred and twenty-five
as|shroud|the|lower|soil|which|shadow|from|the|light
shoot|forth|a|littl|grove|that|in|the|summer|s|day
invit|the|flock|for|shade|that|to|the|covert|stray
a|kill|there|hold|his|head|as|though|it|told|a|tale
or|stoop|to|look|down|or|whisper|with|a|vale|two hundred and thirty
where|littl|purl|wind|like|avanton|seem|to|dalli
and|skip|from|bank|to|bank|from|valley|trip|to|valley
such|sundri|shape|of|soil|where|natur|doth|devis
that|she|may|rather|seem|fantast|than|wise
t|whom|suriui|s|plain|give|place|though|famous|for
her|flock|two hundred and thirty-five
kina|jioad|a|nice|descript|of|cutsuohl
the|fourteenth|song|one hundred and seventy-three
yet|liard|doth|slie|tith|our|cotswom|wealthi|lock
though|lemsier|him|exceed|for|fine|of|her|ore
yet|quit|he|put|her|down|for|his|abound|store
a|match|so|fit|as|he|content|to|her|mind
few|vale|as|i|suppos|like|eiisham|hapt|to|find|two hundred and forty
nor|ani|other|wold|like|cotsivold|ever|sped
so|fair|and|rich|a|vale|by|fortun|to|wed
he|hath|the|good|wool|and|she|the|wealthi|grain|one
through|which|they|wise|seem|their|household|to|main
tain
he|hath|pure|wholesom|air|and|dainti|crystal|spring|two hundred and forty-five
to|those|delight|of|his|she|daili|profit|bring
as|to|his|larg|expens|she|multipli|her|heap
nor|can|his|flock|devour|th|abound|that|she|reap
as|th|one|with|what|it|hath|the|other|strove|to|grace
and|now|that|everyth|may|m|the|proper|place|two hundred and fifty
most|apt|be|contriv|d|the|sheep|our|wold|doth|breed
the|simplest|though|it|seem|shall|our|descript|need
and|shepherdlik|the|muse|thus|of|that|kind|doth|speak
no|brown|nor|sulli|black|the|face|or|leg|doth|streak
like|those|of|moreland|cank|or|of|the|cambria|eleven|hill|two hundred and fifty-five
that|light|laden|are|but|cotsivold|wise|fill
her|with|the|whitest|kind|whose|brow|so|avoolli|be
as|men|in|her|fair|sheep|no|empti|should|see
the|stapl|deep|and|thick|through|to|tlie|veri|grain
most|strong|keepeth|out|the|violentest|rain|two hundred and sixty
a|bodi|long|and|larg|the|buttock|equal|broad
as|fit|to|undergo|the|full|and|weighti|load
and|of|the|fleeci|face|the|flank|doth|noth|lack
but|everywher|is|stor|d|three|the|belli|as|the|back
the|fair|and|good|flock|the|shepherd|s|onli|pride|2c5
as|white|as|winter|s|snow|when|from|the|river|s|side
he|drive|his|newwash|d|sheep|or|on|the|shearingday
when|as|the|lusti|ram|with|those|rich|spoil|of|may
one hundred and seventy-four|polyolbion
his|crook|horn|hath|crown|d|the|bellweth|so|brave
as|none|in|all|the|flock|they|like|themselv|would|have|two hundred and seventy
but|muse|return|to|tell|how|there|the|shepherd|king
whose|flock|hath|chanc|d|that|year|the|earliest|lamb|to
bring
in|his|gay|bauldric|sit|at|his|low|grassi|board|stor|d
with|flawn|curd|cloutedcream|and|countri|dainti
and|whilst|the|bagpip|play|each|lusti|jocund|swain|twenty-five
quaff|s|sillibub|in|can|to|all|upon|the|plain
and|to|their|countrygirl|whose|nosegay|they|do|wear
some|roundelay|do|sing|the|rest|the|burthen|bear
but|cotsivold|be|this|spoke|to|th|onli|prais|of|thee
that|thou|of|all|the|rest|the|chosen|soil|shouldst|be|two hundred and eighty
fair|isi|to|bring|forth|the|mother|of|great|tame
with|those|delici|brook|by|whose|immort|stream
her|great|is|begun|so|that|our|river|king
when|he|his|long|descent|shall|from|his|belsir|bring
must|need|great|pastur|princ|deriv|his|stem|by|thee
from|king|cotsvokv|self|sprung|of|the|third|degre|two hundred and eighty-six
as|th|old|world|s|hero|will|not|that|in|the|time|of|yore
on|neptun|jove|and|mar|themselv|so|high|bore
but|easli|from|her|sourc|as|isi|gentl|dade
unto|her|present|aid|down|through|the|deei|er|slade|two hundred and ninety
the|nimblerfoot|cjmrne|by|cissder|doth|slide
and|first|at|greejdad|get|preemin|to|guid
queen|isi|on|her|way|ere|she|receiv|her|train
clear|coln|and|live|leech|so|down|from|cotswold|s|plain
at|leechlad|link|hand|come|likewis|to|support|two hundred and ninety-five
the|mother|of|great|tame|when|see|the|resort
from|colsicold|ivbidrush|scour|and|with|herself|doth|cast
the|train|to|overtak|and|therefor|hie|her|fast
through|the|oxf|yrdian|field|when|as|the|last|of|all
those|flood|that|into|tame|out|of|our|cotsicold|fall|three hundred
the|fountain|of|thame|rise|in|th|south|of|cotswold
the|founteexth|song|one hundred and seventy-five
and|farthst|unto|tlie|north|bright|eiiload|forth|doth|bear
for|though|it|had|been|long|at|length|she|came|to|hear
that|i|am|was|to|tame|in|avedlock|to|be|tie
and|therefor|she|prepar|d|t|attend|upon|the|bride
expect|at|the|feast|past|ordinari|grace|three hundred and five
and|be|near|of|kin|to|that|most|spring|full|place
where|out|of|blocldey|s|bank|so|mani|fountain|flow
that|clean|throughout|his|soil|proud|coisicold|can|not|show
the|like|as|though|from|far|his|long|and|mani|hill
there|empti|all|theii|vein|wherewith|those|fount|he
fill|three hundred and ten
which|in|the|greatest|drought|so|brimful|still|do|float
sent|through|the|lift|rock|with|such|an|open|throat
as|though|the|cleev|consuni|d|in|humour|they|alon
so|crystallin|and|cold|as|hardneth|stick|to|stone
but|whilst|this|while|we|talk|the|fardivulg|fame|three hundred and fifteen
of|this|great|bridal|towrd|in|pimbus|mighti|name
doth|bid|the|muse|make|hast|and|to|the|bridehous
speed
of|her|attend|there|least|they|should|stand|in|need
illustr
omewhat|returninft|now|near|the|way|you|de
scend|from|the|northern|part|the|muse|lead
you|through|that|part|of|iforcestershir|which|is
on|this|side|severn|and|the|neighbour|sfafford
view|also|coficsicold|and|so|glocest|tlie|fiction|of
this|song|are|not|so|covert|nor|the|allus|so|difficult
but|that|i|presum|your|conceit|for|the|most|part|will
discharg|my|labour
i7fi|and|oft|her|care|repress|icitk|her|dolicmi|wine
in|this|tract|of|glocesfershir|where|to|this|day|mani
place|are|style|vineyard|was|of|ancient|time|among
other|fruit|of|a|fertil|soil|great|store|of|vine|and|more
than|in|ani|other|place|of|the|kingdom|now|in|mani
part|of|this|realm|we|have|some|but|what|come|of
them|in|the|press|is|scarc|worth|respect|long|sinc|the
emperor|probus|galli|omnibus|el|iliqnini|ac|lintanni|per
misit|ut|vile|haber|vinumqu|conjicer|but|tacitus
befor|that|speak|of|this|island|commend|it|with
solum|pnceter|oleam|vitemqii|et|catera|calidioribus|terri|oriri
flav|vopiscua|in|ejusd|vitil
iemiittcil|vine|to|the|gaul|spanlanlk|and|britonit|and|leav
to|uiiikc|wine|in|juli|ajiiwoltt
the|fourteenth|song|one hundred and seventy-seven
sueta|patlen|frujum|fcecundum|long|sinc|probus|eng
land|had|it|vineyard|also|and|some|store|of|wine|as
appear|by|that|in|somcsuaw|unus|el|parous|et|vi|ar
penni|vinec|that|is|between|five|and|six|acr|arpent|in
french|signifi|a|content|of|ground|of|one|hundr|rod
squar|everi|rod|eighteen|feet|d|reddit|xx|modio|vini|si
benb|proceditjf|be|record|of|a|place|by|balegh|in|essex
this|was|under|jvuuam|i|and|sinc|him|in|time|of|hen
twelve|much|wine|was|made|here|in|gloccsfershir|that|now
the|isl|enjoy|not|frequenc|of|this|benefit|as|in|old|time
whether|it|be|through|the|soil|s|old|age|and|so|like|a
woman|grow|steril|as|in|anoth|kind|tremeum|mani
hundr|year|sinc|thought|or|by|reason|of|the|earth|s
chang|of|place|as|upon|differ|in|astronom|obser
vation|stadius|guess|or|that|some|part|of|singular|in
fluenc|whereon|astrolog|hang|most|of|inferior|qualiti
is|alter|by|that|slow|cours|yet|of|great|power|in|altera
tion|of|heaven|s|system|of|the|eighth|sphere|or|prsecess
of|the|equinocti|or|by|reason|of|industri|want|in|the
husbandman|i|leav|it|to|other|examin
one hundred and seventy-seven|sliu|fall|souihicard|leav
he|allud|to|the|differ|of|the|zodiac|s|obliqu|from
what|it|was|of|old|for|in|ptolemij|time|about|one thousand, four hundred and sixty
year|sinc|the|utmost|declin|of|the|sun|in|the|first|of
cancer|where|she|is|nearest|to|our|vertic|point|was|twenty-three
gr|and|about|fifty-two|minut|sinc|that|alhatcgni|about|char
lemain|s|time|observ|it|some|fifteen|scrupl|less|after|him
near|1000th|year|of|christ|arzachel|found|it|twenty-three|gr|thirty-four|scr
a|soil|fruit|enough|except|of|oliv|and|vine|which|are|for
hotter|climat
t|one|park|and|six|arpen|of|vineyard|and|bring|forth|some
twenti|tirkius|of|wine|if|the|year|prove|well
camd|in|trinobantihus|malmesb|de|pontificura|gesti|four
ap|columel|de|ie|rustic|two|cap|one
vol|ii|twelve
one hundred and seventy-eight|polyolbion
and|in|this|later|age|john|of|conkjshurg|and|cfrpernicus
brought|it|to|twenty-three|gr|twenty-eight|scrup|which|concord|also|with
the|fnifeuic|accompt|and|as|mani|as|thenc|traduc|their
ephemerid|so|that|by|this|calcul|about|twenty-four|minut
the|sun|come|not|now|so|near|our|zenith|as|it|did|in
ptolemi|s|time|but|in|truth|for|in|these|thing|i|accompt
that|truth|which|is|warrant|by|most|accur|observa
tion|and|those|learn|mathematician|by|omit|of
parallax|and|refract|deceiv|themselv|and|post
riti|the|declin|in|this|age|is|twenty-three|gr|31i|scrup|as
that|nobl|dane|and|most|honour|restor|of|astrono
mical|motion|tijcho|brake|hath|taught|us|which|although
it|be|greater|than|that|of|copernicus|and|his|follow|yet
is|much|less|than|what|is|in|ptolemi|and|by|two|scrupl
differ|from|arzuch|so|justifi|the|author|s|conceit
suppos|the|becaus|of|our|climat|s|not|now|produc
wine|to|be|the|sun|s|declin|from|us|which|for|everi
scrupl|answer|in|earth|about|one|of|our|mile|but|a|far
more|larg|distanc|in|the|celesti|globe|i|can|as|well
maintain|this|highfetch|becaus|be|upon|differ|of
so|few|minut|in|one|of|the|slowest|motion|and|we|see
that|greatest|effect|are|alway|attribut|to|them|as|upon
the|old|conceit|of|the|pluton|year|abridg|into|near|his
half|by|copernicus|those|consequ|foretold|upon|the
chang|of|eccentr|out|of|one|sign|into|anoth|the|equi
noctial|prsecess|and|such|like|as|other|may|their|con
version|of|a|planet|s|state|into|fortunafc|oppr|or|coin
hust|by|measur|or|miss|their|ig|scrupl|of|cazimi
their|orh|moiti|and|such|curios|neither|can|you
salv|the|effect|of|this|declin|by|the|sun|s|much|nearer
one|cniieinic|tie|three|ca|three
cardan|ad|two|jotraljii|ct|de|varictat|rav|two|qui|ro|ihaiii|ni
miiim|a|itiotilm|octav|you|kij|jliln|iii|facilioet|juo|circa|one thousand, eight hundred|cuiitra
rio|velut|fieri|iuodo|suppoiiit|sacrosanctu|lleligioui|mutatioucm|in
ejl6|himul|et|iiiipii|praidixit|ct|hujus|generi|sexcenta
the|founteenth|song|one hundred and seventy-nine
approach|to|the|earth|upon|that|decreas|of|his|eccentr
which|copernicus|and|his|follow|have|ish|for
admit|that|were|true|yet|judici|astrolog|reli|more
upon|aspect|and|beam|fall|on|us|with|angl|which|are
much|alter|by|this|chang|of|obliqu|in|the|zodiac|than
distanc|of|everi|singular|star|from|the|earth|but|inde
upon|mistak|the|pole|s|altitud|and|other|error|in|ob
servat|copernicus|was|deceiv|and|in|this|present|age
the|sun|s|eccentr|in|ptolemi|be|the|24th|of|the
eccentr|s|semidiamet|divid|into|go|hath|been|found
between|the|27th|and|28th|p|which|is|far|greater|than|that
in|copernicus|erron|make|it|but|near|the|31st|but
this|is|too|heaven|a|languag|for|the|common|reader
and|perhap|too|late|i|leav|it
cui|hoc|nomin|gravitr|minitatus|est|juli|scalig|exercitat
ninety|sect|two
tycho|brali|in|progymnasm
one hundred and twenty-two
the|fifteenth|song
m
the|argument
the|guest|here|to|the|bridehous|hie
the|good|vale|of|alsburi
set|her|son|tame|forth|brave|as|may
upon|the|joy|weddingday
who|deck|d|up|towrd|s|his|bride|is|gone
so|love|isi|come|on
at|oxford|all|the|muse|meet|her
and|with|a|prothalamion|greet|her
the|nympli|are|in|the|bridal|bower
some|strow|sweet|some|sort|flower
wltere|lusti|charwel|himself|rais
and|sing|of|river|and|their|j|rais
then|tame|his|way|toiord|windsor|tend
thus|with|the|song|the|marriag|end
ow|fame|had|through|this|isl|divulg|d|in|everi
ear
the|longexpect|day|of|marriag|to|be|near
that|isi|cotwokv|heir|long|woo|d|was|last|won
and|instant|should|wed|with|tame|old|chiltcrn|s|son
tajn|aris|in|the|vale|of|auhuri|at|the|foot|of|the|chillem
one hundred and eighty-two|polyolbion
and|now|that|woodman|wife|the|mother|of|the|flood|five
the|rich|and|good|vale|of|ahhuri|that|stood
so|much|upon|her|tame|was|busi|in|her|bower
prepar|for|her|son|as|mani|suit|of|flower
as|cotsivokl|for|the|bride|his|isi|late|made
avho|for|the|love|tame|her|bridegroom|onli|stay|d|lo
whilst|everi|crystal|flood|is|to|this|busi|prest
the|becaus|of|their|great|speed|and|mani|thus|request
o|whither|go|ye|flood|what|sudden|wind|doth|blow
than|other|of|your|kind|that|you|so|fast|should|flow
avhat|busi|is|in|hand|that|spur|you|thus|away|one|is
fair|windrnsh|let|me|hear|i|pray|thee|charweu|say
they|sudden|repli|what|let|us|you|should|not|see
that|for|this|nuptial|feast|we|all|prepar|be|one
therefor|this|idl|chat|our|ear|doth|but|ofiend
our|leisur|serv|not|now|these|trifl|to|attend|twenty
but|whilst|thing|are|in|hand|old|chiltcnt|for|his|life
from|prodig|expens|can|no|way|keep|his|wife
who|feed|her|tame|with|marl|in|cordialwis|prepar|d
and|think|all|idl|spent|that|now|she|onli|spar|d
in|set|forth|her|son|nor|can|she|think|it|well|twenty-five
unless|her|lavish|charg|do|cotsicokv|far|excel
for|alsburi|s|a|vale|that|walloweth|in|her|wealth
and|by|her|wholesom|air|continu|in|health
is|lusti|frim|and|fat|and|hold|her|youth|strength
besid|her|fruit|earth|her|mighti|breadth|and|length|thirty
doth|cluuern|fit|match|which|mountain|high
and|be|veri|long|so|likewis|she|doth|lie
from|the|bedfcndian|field|where|first|she|doth|begin
to|fashion|like|a|vale|to|th|place|where|tuin|doth|win
his|his|avish6d|bed|her|soil|throughout|so|sure|ss
for|good|of|her|glebe|and|for|her|pastur|pure
the|rich|of|the|vale|of|altshuri
the|fifteenth|song|one hundred and eighty-three
that|as|her|grain|and|grass|so|she|her|sheep|doth|breed
for|burthen|and|for|bone|all|other|that|exceed
and|she|wiiich|tlius|in|wealth|abound|doth|flow
now|care|not|on|her|child|what|cost|she|do|bestow|4o
which|when|wise|chluern|saw|the|world|who|long|had
tri|d
ard|now|at|last|had|laid|all|garish|pomp|asid
whose|hoar|and|chalki|head|descri|d|him|to|be|old
his|beechen|wood|bereft|that|kept|him|from|the|cold
would|fain|persuad|the|vale|to|hold|a|steadi|rate|forty-five
avid|with|his|curious|wife|thus|wise|doth|debat
quoth|he|you|might|allow|what|needeth|to|the|most
but|where|as|less|will|serv|what|mean|this|idl|cost
too|much|a|surfeit|breed|and|may|our|child|annoy
these|fat|and|luscious|meat|do|but|our|stomach|cloy|fifty
the|modest|come|mean|in|all|thing|like|the|wise
apparel|often|shew|us|womanish|precis
xind|what|will|cotmold|think|when|he|shall|hear|of|this
he|will|rather|blame|your|wast|than|prais|your|cost|i|wiss
but|women|wil|be|and|she|her|will|must|have|fifty-five
nor|care|how|chilfeni|chide|so|that|her|tame|be|brave
alon|which|towrd|his|love|she|easli|doth|convey
for|the|oxonian|ouz|was|late|sent|away
from|buckingham|where|first|he|find|his|nimbler|feet
towrd|whlttleioood|then|take|where|past|the|noblest
street|sixty
he|to|the|forest|give|his|farewel|and|doth|keep
his|cours|direct|down|into|the|german|deep
to|publish|that|great|day|in|mighti|neptim|s|hall
that|all|the|seagod|there|might|keep|it|festival
as|we|have|told|how|ta7n|hold|on|his|even|cours|sixty-five
eeturn|we|to|report|how|isi|from|her|sourc
the|ct|seven|vicountri|hogin|also|to|want|wood
that|ouz|aris|nuar|brackki|ruuniiig|into|the|gennans
iiuiiiikj
one hundred and eighty-four|polyolbion
come|trip|with|delight|down|from|her|daintier
spring
and|in|her|princ|train|tattend|her|marriag|bring
clear|churnet|coln|and|leeeh|which|first|she|did|retain
with|ifindrush|and|with|her|all|outrag|to|restrain|o
which|well|might|offr|be|to|ms|as|she|went
came|yenload|with|a|guard|of|satyr|which|were|sent
from|jfhicjnvoocl|to|await|the|bright|and|godlik|dame
so|bernivood|did|bequeath|his|satyr|to|the|tdinc
for|stickler|in|those|stir|that|at|the|feast|should|be|seventy-five
these|prepar|great|when|charwel|come|to|see
to|oxford|got|befor|to|entertain|the|flood
apollo|s|aid|he|beg|with|all|his|sacr|brood
to|that|most|learn|place|to|welcom|her|repair
who|in|her|come|on|was|wax|d|so|wondrous|fair|so
that|meet|strife|aros|betwixt|them|whether|they
her|beauti|should|extol|or|she|admir|their|bay
on|whom|their|sever|gift|to|amplifi|her|dower
the|muse|there|bestow|which|ever|have|the|power
immort|her|to|make|and|as|she|pass|d|along|ss
those|modest|thcsjmm|maid|thus|to|their|his|song
ye|daughter|of|the|hill|come|down|from|everi|side
and|due|attend|give|upon|the|love|bride
go|strew|the|path|with|flower|by|which|she|is|to|pass
for|be|ye|thus|assur|d|in|albim|never|was|ninety
a|beauti|yet|like|her|where|have|ye|ever|seen
so|absolut|a|nymph|in|all|thing|for|a|queen
give|instant|in|charg|the|day|be|avondruus|fair
that|no|disord|d|blast|attempt|her|braid|hair
go|see|lier|state|prepar|d|and|everi|thing|be|fit|ninety-five
the|bridechamb|adorn|d|with|all|beseem|it
river|aris|in|colsivokl|spoke|of|in|tlio|former|song
laurel|for|karulul|the|musea
the|fifteenth|song|one hundred and eighty-five
and|for|the|princ|groom|who|ever|yet|could|name
a|flood|that|is|so|fit|for|ms|as|the|tame
ye|both|so|love|are|that|knowledg|scarc|can|tell
for|featur|whether|he|or|beauti|she|excel|loo
that|ravish|with|joy|each|other|to|behold
when|as|your|crystal|waist|you|close|do|enfold
betwixt|your|beauteous|selv|you|shall|beget|a|son
that|when|your|live|shall|end|in|him|shall|be|begun
the|pleasant|surryan|shore|shall|in|that|flood|delight|io5
and|kent|esteem|herself|most|happi|in|his|sight
the|shire|that|london|love|shall|onli|him|prefer
and|give|full|mani|a|gift|to|hold|him|near|to|her
the|skeld|the|good|mose|the|rich|and|vini|ehin
shall|come|to|meet|the|thame|in|neptun|s|watri|plain|tto
and|all|the|belgian|stream|and|neighbour|flood|of
gaul
of|him|shall|stand|in|awe|his|tributari|all
as|of|fair|isi|thus|the|learn|virgin|spake
a|shrill|and|sudden|bruit|this|protjtalamian|brake
that|jfhitehos|for|the|love|she|bare|to|her|alli|lis
and|honour|would|sister|vale|the|bounteous|alsbunj
sent|present|to|the|tame|by|ock|her|onli|flood
which|for|his|mother|vale|so|much|on|great|stood
from|oxford|isi|hast|more|speedili|to|see
that|river|like|his|birth|might|entertain|be|one hundred and twenty
for|that|ambit|vale|still|strive|to|command
and|use|for|her|place|continu|to|stand
proud|jfhitehors|to|persuad|much|busi|there|hath
been
t|acknowledg|that|great|vale|of|eusjumi|for|her|queen
they|all|three|river|of|greatest|note|in|the|lower|germani
cast|themselv|into|the|ocean|in|the|coast|opposit|to|the|mouth|of
thaiae
marriag|song
one hundred and eighty-six|polyolbion
and|but|that|evsham|is|so|opul|and|great|one hundred and twenty-five
that|therebi|she|herself|hold|in|the|sovereign|seat
this|wldtelwrs|all|the|vale|of|britain|would|oerbear
and|absolut|sit|in|the|imperi|chair
and|boast|as|good|herd|and|numer|flock|to|feed
to|have|as|soft|a|glebe|as|good|increas|of|seed|i30
as|pure|and|fresh|an|air|upon|her|face|to|flow
as|eusham|for|her|life|and|from|her|steed|doth|shoav
her|lusti|rise|down|as|fair|a|prospect|take
as|that|imperi|wold|which|her|great|queen|doth|make
so|wondrous|admir|d|and|her|so|far|extend|i3d
but|to|the|marriag|henc|industri|muse|descend
the|naiad|and|the|nymph|extrem|overjoy|d
and|on|the|wind|bank|all|busili|imploy|d
upon|this|joy|day|some|dainti|chaplet|twine
some|other|chosen|out|with|finger|neat|and|fine|one hundred and forty
brave|anadem|do|make|some|bauldrick|up|do|bind
some|garland|and|to|some|the|nosegay|were|assign|d
as|best|their|skill|did|serv|but|for|that|tame|should|be
still|manlik|as|himself|therefor|they|will|that|he
shall|not|be|drest|with|flower|to|garden|that|belong|one hundred and forty-five
his|bride|that|better|fit|but|onli|such|as|sprong
from|the|replenish|d|mead|and|fruit|pastur|near
to|sort|which|flower|some|sit|some|make|garland
were
the|primros|place|first|becaus|that|in|the|spring
it|is|the|first|appear|then|onli|flourish|i5o
the|azur|d|harebel|next|with|them|they|neat|mixt
t|allay|whose|luscious|smell|they|woodund|plac|d|betwixt
amongst|those|thing|of|scent|there|prick|they|in|the|luhj
and|near|to|that|again|her|sister|dajjadillij
ivhuehorkc|strivcth|for|sovereignti|w|it|all|the|vale|of|britain
cotsirold|crown|of|llowcr
flower|of|the|meadow|and|pastur
tee|fifteenth|song|one hundred and eighty-seven
to|sort|these|flower|of|show|with|th|other|that|were
sweet|one hundred and fifty-five
the|cowslip|then|they|couch|and|th|oxslip|for|her|meet
the|cohcmbin|amongst|tliey|sjare|do|set
the|yellow|kingcup|wrought|in|mani|a|curious|fret
and|now|and|then|among|of|eglantin|a|spray
by|which|again|a|cours|of|laibjsmock|they|lay|i60
the|croivflow|and|tlierebi|the|cloverflow|they|stick
the|daisi|over|all|those|sundri|sweet|so|thick
as|natur|doth|herself|to|imit|her|right
who|seem|in|that|her|pearl|so|great|to|delight
that|everi|plain|therewith|she|powdreth|to|behold|i65
the|crimson|darnel|flower|the|bluebottl|and|gold
which|though|esteem|d|but|weed|yet|for|their|dainti|hue
and|for|their|scent|not|i|will|they|for|this|purpos|choos
thus|have|told|you|how|the|bridegroom|tame|was
drest
i|will|show|you|how|the|bride|fair|isi|they|invest|iro
sit|to|be|attir|d|under|her|bower|of|state
which|scorn|a|meaner|sort|than|fit|a|princ|rate
in|anadem|for|whom|they|curious|dispos
the|eed|the|dainti|white|the|good|damask|rose
for|the|rich|rubi|pearl|and|amatist|men|place|i75
in|king|emperi|crown|the|circl|that|enchas
the|brave|carnat|then|with|sweet|and|sovereign|power
so|of|his|colour|call|d|although|a|julyflow
with|th|other|of|his|kind|the|speckl|and|the|pale
then|th|odorifer|pink|that|send|forth|such|a|gale|iso
of|sweet|yet|in|scent|as|various|as|in|sort
the|purpl|fiolet|then|the|pa7isi|there|support
the|marygold|abov|t|adorn|the|arch|bar
the|doubl|daisi|thrift|the|jjuttonbatchel
sweet|william|sop|in|wine|the|campion|and|to|these|isa
margarita|is|both|a|pearl|and|a|daisi|flower|of|garden
one hundred and eighty-eight|polyolbion
some|lavand|they|put|with|rosemari|and|bay
sweet|marjoram|with|her|like|sweet|basil|rare|for|smell
with|mani|a|flower|whose|name|were|now|too|long|to|tell
and|rarelj|with|the|rest|the|good|flowerdelic
thus|for|the|nuptial|hour|all|fit|pointdevic|loo
whilst|some|still|busi|are|in|deck|of|the|bride
some|other|were|again|as|serious|imploy|d
in|strew|of|those|herb|at|bridal|us|d|that|be
which|everywher|they|throw|with|bounteous|hand|and|free
the|health|bahn|and|3iint|from|their|full|lap|do|fli|i96
the|scentful|camomul|the|verdur|costmari
they|hot|muscado|oft|with|milder|maudlin|cast
strong|tansey|fennel|cool|they|prodig|wast
clear|hop|and|therewith|the|comfort|thyme
germand|with|the|rest|each|thing|then|in|her|prime|two hundred
as|well|of|wholesom|herb|as|everi|pleasant|flower
which|natur|here|produc|d|to|fit|this|happi|hour
amongst|these|strew|kind|some|other|wild|that|grow
as|burnet|all|abroad|and|meadoicuvrt|they|throw
thus|all|thing|fall|out|to|everi|one|s|desir|two hundred and five
the|ceremoni|done|that|marriag|doth|requir
the|bride|and|bridegroom|set|and|serv|with|sundri|cate
and|everi|other|plac|d|as|fit|their|estat
amongst|this|confluenc|great|wise|charicel|here|was|thought
the|fittst|to|cheer|the|guest|who|through|had|been|taught
in|all|that|could|pertain|to|courtship|long|agon|2u
as|come|from|lii|sire|the|fruit|helidon
he|travelleth|to|tame|where|pass|by|those|town
of|that|rich|countri|near|wherea|the|mirth|clown
avith|taber|and|the|pipe|on|holyday|do|use|two hundred and fifteen
upon|the|may|pole|green|to|trampl|out|their|shoe
and|have|in|his|ear|the|deep|and|solemn|ring|t
strew|herb
a|hill|betwixt|northamptonshir|and|waruick
f|famous|riiiga|of|bella|in|vxfvrdehir|call|the|crossr
the|fifteenth|sonq|one hundred and eighty-nine
which|sound|him|all|the|way|unto|the|learn|spring
wlier|he|his|sovereign|ouz|most|happili|doth|meet
and|him|the|thricethre|maid|apollo|s|offspr|greet|two hundred and twenty
with|all|their|sacr|gift|thus|expert|be|grown
in|music|and|besid|a|curious|makert|known
this|charwel|as|i|said|the|fittst|these|flood|among
for|silenc|have|call|d|thus|to|th|assembl|song
stand|fast|ye|higher|hill|low|valley|easili|lie|two hundred and twenty-three
and|forest|that|to|both|you|equal|appli
but|for|the|greater|part|both|wild|and|barren|be
retir|ye|to|your|wast|and|river|onli|we
oft|meet|let|us|mix|and|with|delight|grace
let|everi|beauteous|nymph|her|bestlov|d|flood|imbrac
an|alien|be|he|born|or|near|to|her|own|spring|two hundred and thirty-one
so|from|his|nativ|fount|he|brave|flourish
along|the|flowri|field|licenti|do|strain
greet|each|curl|grove|and|circl|everi|plain
or|hast|to|his|fall|his|shoali|gravel|scour|two hundred and thirty-five
and|with|his|crystal|front|then|court|the|climb|towr
let|all|the|world|be|judg|what|mountain|hath|a|name
like|that|from|whose|proud|foot|there|spring|some|flood
of|fame
and|in|the|earth|s|survey|what|seat|like|that|is|set
whose|street|some|ampl|stream|abound|doth|wetl
where|is|there|haven|found|or|harbour|like|that|road|two hundred and forty-one
int|which|some|good|flood|his|burthen|doth|unload
by|whose|rank|swell|stream|the|farfetch|d|foreign
fraught
may|up|to|inland|town|conveni|be|brought
of|ani|part|of|earth|we|be|the|most|renown|d|twenty-four
that|countri|veri|oft|nay|empir|oft|we|bound
as|eubicon|much|fam|d|both|for|his|fount|and|fau
oxford
t|a|fine|poet
l90|polyolbion
the|ancient|limit|held|twixt|itali|and|gaul
europ|and|asia|keep|on|tanai|either|side
such|honour|have|we|flood|the|world|even|to|divid|two hundred and fifty
nay|kingdom|thus|we|prove|are|christn|oft|by|us
iberia|take|her|name|of|crystal|iherus
such|rever|to|our|kind|the|wiser|ancient|gave
as|they|suppo|d|each|flood|a|deiti|to|have
but|with|our|fame|at|home|return|we|to|proceed|two hundred and fifty-six
in|britain|here|we|find|our|severn|and|our|tweed
tlie|tripartit|isl|do|general|divid
to|england|scotland|wale|as|each|doth|keep|her|side
trent|cut|the|land|in|two|so|equal|as|tho
natur|it|pointedout|to|our|great|bride|to|show|26o
how|to|his|migliti|son|the|island|he|might|share
a|thousand|of|this|kind|and|nearer|i|will|spare
where|if|the|state|of|flood|at|larg|i|list|to|show
i|proud|could|report|how|pactolus|doth|throw
up|grain|of|perfect|gold|and|of|great|gang|tell|two hundred and five
which|when|full|india|s|shower|inforceth|him|to|swell
gild|with|his|glister|sand|the|overpamp|shore
how|wealthi|tagn|first|by|tumbl|down|his|ore
the|rude|and|sloth|moor|of|old|iberia|taught
to|search|into|those|hill|from|which|such|wealth|be
brought|two hundred and seventy
beyond|these|if|i|plea|d|i|to|your|prais|could|bring
in|sacr|tnnjw|how|about|the|hoofplow|d|spring
the|heliconian|maid|upon|that|hallow|ground
recount|heaven|liymn|etern|are|crown|d
and|as|the|earth|doth|us|in|her|own|bowel|nourish|two hundred and seventy-five
so|everyth|that|grow|by|us|doth|thrive|and|flourish
to|god|vii|tuous|men|we|wise|liken|are
to|be|so|in|themselv|that|do|not|onli|care
th|it|wliich|v|ih|calletl|gallia|chaliaiui|and|is|lombardi|ro
matjnu|aud|tlic|western|part|of|ilali
the|fifteenth|song|one hundred and ninety-one
but|by|a|sacr|power|which|good|doth|await
do|make|those|virtuous|too|that|them|associ|2so
by|this|the|wed|end|and|brake|up|all|the|show
and|tame|got|born|and|bred|immedi|doth|flow
to|jfindsoiwaxd|amain|that|with|a|wondr|eye
the|forest|might|behold|his|aw|emperi
and|soon|becometh|great|with|water|wax|d|so|rank|2s5
that|with|his|wealth|he|seem|to|retch|his|widen|bank
till|happili|attain|d|his|grandsir|chiuern|s|ground
who|with|his|beechen|wreath|this|king|of|river|crown
amongst|his|holt|and|hill|as|on|his|way|he|make
at|bead|onc|arriv|d|clear|keiinet|overtak|two|jo
her|lord|the|state|tame|which|that|great|flood|again
with|mani|sign|of|joy|doth|kind|entertain
then|loddon|next|come|in|contribut|her|store
as|still|we|see|the|much|run|ever|to|the|more
set|out|with|all|this|pomp|when|this|emperi|stream|two hundred and ninety-five
himself|establish|d|see|amidst|his|watri|realm
his|muchlov|d|henhj|leav|and|proud|doth|pursu
his|wopduymph|ifindsor|s|seat|her|love|site|to|view
whose|most|delight|face|when|onc|the|eiver|see
which|show|herself|attir|d|in|tall|and|state|tree|three hundred
he|in|such|earnest|love|with|amor|gestur|wooe
that|look|still|at|her|his|way|was|like|to|lose
and|wandr|in|and|out|so|wild|seem|to|go
as|headlong|he|himself|into|her|lap|would|throw
him|with|the|like|desir|the|foxest|doth|imbrac|three hundred and five
and|with|her|presenc|strive|her|tame|as|much|to
grace
no|forest|of|them|all|so|fit|as|she|doth|stand
when|princ|fur|their|spurt|her|pleasur|will|com
mand
no|woodnymph|as|herself|such|troop|hath|ever|seen
nor|can|such|quarri|boast|as|have|in|wmuor|beeu|three hundred and ten
one hundred and ninety-two
polyolbion
kor|ani|ever|had|so|mani|solemn|day
so|brave|assembl|view|nor|took|so|rich|assay
then|hand|in|hand|her|tame|the|forest|soft|bring
to|that|supremest|place|of|the|great|english|ing
the|garier|s|royal|seat|from|him|who|did|advaac|3i5
that|princ|order|first|our|first|that|conquer|franc
the|templ|of|saint|georg|wherea|his|honour|knight
upon|his|hallow|day|observ|their|ancient|rite
where|eaton|is|at|hand|to|nurs|that|learn|brood
to|keep|the|muse|still|near|to|this|princ|flood|three hundred and twenty
that|noth|there|may|want|to|beautifi|that|seat
with|everi|pleasur|stor|d|and|here|my|song|complet
break|up|of|deer|brought|into|the|quarri
illust
shall|here|be|shorter|than|in|the|last|befor
the|muse|is|so|full|in|herself|employ|wholli
about|the|nuptial|of|tame|and|his|in|the
girland|of|tame|are|wreath|most|of|our|eni
lish|fieldfloic|in|them|of|his|our|more|sweet|and|those
of|the|garden|yet|upon|that
three hundred and fifteen|tlie|garter|s|eoyal|seat|from|him|who|did|advanc
i|can|not|but|rememo|the|institut|touch|to|the
fourth|song|of|his|most|honour|order|dedic|to
s|georg|in|twenty-four|ed|iil|it|is|year|at|this|place|celebr
by|that|nobl|compani|of|twentysix|whether|the|becaus
were|upon|the|word|of|garter|given|in|the|french|war
among|the|english|or|upon|the|queen|s|or|countess|of
salisburi|s|garter|fallen|from|her|leg|or|upon|differ|and
more|ancient|origin|whatsoev|know|clear|without
unlimit|affect|of|your|countri|s|glori|that|it|ex
ceed|in|majesti|honour|and|fame|all|chivalr|order
in|the|world|and|except|those|of|tonplar|s|jame
calatrava|alcantara|and|such|like|other|which|were|more
epligi|than|militari|hath|preced|of|antiqu|be
fore|the|eldest|rank|of|honour|of|that|kind|ani|where
vol|n|thirteen
one hundred and ninety-four
polyolbion
establish|the|anunciada|institut|by|amad|vi
earl|of|savoy|about|one thousand, four hundred and nine|although|other|have|it|by
amad|iv|and|so|creat|it|befor|this|of|the|garter|and
that|of|the|golden|fleec|by|phdip|duke|of|burgundi|one thousand, four hundred and twenty-nine
of|s|michael|by|leiv|xl|delia|banda|by|alfonso|of|spain
and|such|like|ensu|it|as|imit|institut|after|a
regard|of|the|far|extend|fame|worth|and|glori|of|s
georg|knight
one|v|aubert|mir|orig|eqiiest|two|cap|four|et|sansouin|orig|de
cavalieri
the|sixteenth|song
i
the|argument
old|ver|near|to|saint|alban|hring
watl|to|talk|of|ancient|tile
what|yerlam|ia|befor|she|fell
and|mani|more|sad|ruin|tell
of|the|four|old|emperi|way
the|cours|they|held|and|to|what|sea
of|those|seven|saxon|kingdom|here
their|s|and|horv|they|hound|iuer
then|pureval|vaunt|her|rich|estat
and|lea|bewray|her|wretch|fate
the|3fuse|led|on|with|mtich|delight
deliv|london|s|happi|site
show|this|loos|age|s|lewd|abus
and|for|this|time|there|stay|the|muse
he|bridal|of|our|tame|and|princ|his|past
and|tamesl|their|son|begot|and|avax|fast
inviteth|crystal|coin|his|wealth|on|him|to|lay
whose|beauti|had|intic|d|his|sovereigu|tame|to
stay
had|he|not|been|inforc|d|by|his|unruli|train|fr
for|brent|a|pretti|brook|allur|him|on|again
great|london|to|salut|whose|highrear|d|turret|throng
to|gaze|upon|the|flood|as|he|doth|pass|along
the|river|run|by|uxbridgc|and|colbroolr
one hundred and thirty-two
one hundred and ninety-six|polyolbion
now|as|the|tame|is|great|so|most|transpar|coln
feel|with|excess|joy|her|amor|bosom|swoln|lo
that|fer|of|loni|esteem|j|a|famous|ancient|flood
upon|whose|age|bank|old|ferlamchest|stood
ijefor|the|lioman|rule|here|glorifi|of|yore
unto|her|clearer|bank|contribut|his|store
enlarg|both|her|stream|and|strengthen|his|renown|is
where|the|delici|mead|her|through|her|cours|do|crown
this|per|as|i|have|said|colnc|s|tributari|brook
on|verlam|s|ruin|d|wall|as|sad|he|doth|look
near|holi|alhan|s|town|where|his|rich|shrine|was|set
old|jvatl|in|his|way|the|flood|doth|overget|twenty
where|after|rever|done|fer|quoth|the|ancient|street
t|is|long|sinc|thou|and|i|first|in|this|place|did|meet
and|so|it|is|quoth|ver|and|we|have|liv|d|to|see
thing|in|far|better|state|than|at|this|time|they|be
but|he|that|made|amend|for|much|there|goe|amiss|2s
quoth|ifatlhfj|gentl|flood|yea|so|in|truth|it|is
and|sith|of|this|thou|speakst|the|veri|sooth|to|say
sinc|great|miilinniun|first|made|me|the|no|lest|way
the|soil|is|alter|much|the|becaus|i|pray|thee|show
the|time|that|thou|hast|liv|d|hath|taught|thee|much|to
know|thirty
i|fain|would|understand|whi|this|delight|place
n|former|time|that|stood|so|high|in|natur|s|grace
which|bare|such|store|of|grain|and|that|so|wondrous|great
tliat|all|the|neighbour|coast|was|call|d|the|soil|of|wheat
of|later|time|is|turn|d|a|liot|and|hungri|sand|zi
which|scarc|repay|the|seed|first|cast|into|the|land
at|which|the|silent|brook|shrunk|in|his|silver|head
and|feign|d|as|he|away|would|instant|have|lie
suspect|present|speech|might|paisst|d|giief|renew
whom|ivallmj|thus|again|duth|serious|pursu|4a
the|littl|clear|river|by|saint|alban|whelhamsiead
the|sixteenth|song|one hundred and ninety-seven
i|pray|thee|be|not|coy|but|answer|ray|demand
the|becaus|of|this|dear|flood|i|fain|would|understand
thou|sawst|when|verlam|onc|her|head|aloft|did|bear
which|in|her|cinder|now|lie|sad|buri|here
with|alablast|tuch|and|porpheri|adorn|d|forty-five
when|well|near|in|her|pride|great|troinov|she|scorn|d
thou|sawst|greatburthen|d|ship|through|these|thi
valley|pass
where|now|the|sharpedg|d|scyth|sheer|up|the|spire
grass
that|where|the|ugli|seal|and|porpois|us|d|to|play
the|grasshopp|and|ant|now|lord|it|all|the|day|so
where|now|saint|alhan|stand|was|call|hohiiehurst|then
whose|sumptuous|fane|we|see|neglect|now|again
this|rich|and|good|fane|which|ruin|d|thou|dost|see
quoth|vcr|the|motiv|is|that|thou|importutist|me
but|to|anoth|thing|thou|cun|dost|fli|fifty-five
and|reason|seerast|to|urg|of|her|steril
with|that|he|fetch|d|a|sigh|and|ground|his|teeth|in|rage
quoth|fer|even|for|the|sin|of|this|accurs|age
behold|that|good|fane|which|ruin|d|now|doth|stand
to|holi|alhan|built|first|martyr|of|the|land|uo
who|in|the|faith|of|christ|from|rome|to|britain|came
and|die|in|this|place|resign|d|his|glorious|name
in|memori|of|whom|as|more|than|halfdivin
our|english|offa|rear|d|a|rich|and|sumptuous|shrine
and|monasteri|here|which|our|succeed|king|five
from|time|to|time|endow|d|with|mani|good|thing
and|mani|a|christian|knight|was|buri|here|befor
the|noiman|set|his|foot|upon|this|conquer|shore
and|after|those|brave|spirit|in|all|those|bale|stower
that|with|duke|liobert|went|against|the|pagan|power|ro
took|befor|to|the|eleventh|song
with|the|cljost|sou|of|the|conqueror|into|the|holi|laud
19s|polyolbion
and|in|their|countri|s|right|at|cressi|those|that|stood
and|that|at|foyter|bath|d|their|bilbow|in|french|blood
their|vahant|nephew|next|at|aginanirt|that|fought
wherea|rebelli|franc|upon|her|knee|was|brought
in|this|religi|hous|at|some|of|their|return|t5
when|natur|claira|d|her|due|here|plac|d|their|hallow
urn
avhich|now|devour|time|in|his|so|mighti|wast
demolish|those|wall|hath|utter|defac|d
so|that|the|earth|to|feel|the|ruinous|heap|of|stone
that|with|the|burthnous|weight|now|press|their|sacr
bone|so
forbid|this|wick|brood|should|by|her|fruit|be|fed
as|loath|her|own|womb|that|such|loos|children|bred
herewith|transport|quit|to|these|exclaim|he|fell
live|no|man|that|this|world|her|grievous|crime|dare|tell|one
where|be|those|nobl|spirit|for|ancient|thing|that|stood
when|in|my|prime|of|youth|i|was|a|gallant|flood|so
in|those|free|golden|day|it|was|the|satir|s|use
to|tax|the|guilti|time|and|rail|upon|abus
but|soother|find|the|way|prefer|most|to|win
who|serv|great|men|s|turn|becom|the|bawd|to|sin|oo
when|jratuixj|in|his|word|that|took|but|small|delight
hear|the|angri|brook|so|cruelli|to|bite
as|one|that|fain|would|drive|these|fanci|from|his|mind
quoth|he|i|will|tell|thee|thing|that|suit|thi|gentler|kind
my|song|is|of|myself|and|my|three|sister|street|ninety-five
avliich|way|each|of|us|run|where|each|her|fellow|meet
sinc|us|his|king|way|mnlviitlius|first|began
from|sea|again|to|sea|that|through|the|island|ran
which|that|in|mind|to|keep|poster|might|have
appoint|first|our|cours|this|privileg|he|gave|loo
that|no|man|might|arrest|or|debtor|s|good|might|seiz
in|ani|of|us|four|his|militari|way
tee|sixteenth|song|one hundred and ninety-nine
and|though|the|foss|in|length|exceed|me|mani|a|mile
that|hold|from|shore|to|shore|the|length|of|all|the|isl
from|where|rich|cormval|point|to|the|iberian|sea|one hundred and five
till|colder|cuthn|tell|the|scatter|orcad
i|measur|but|the|breadth|that|is|not|half|his|gait
yet|for|that|i|am|grac|d|with|good|london|s|state
and|tame|and|sereni|both|sinc|in|my|cours|i|cross
and|in|much|greater|trade|am|worthier|far|than|foss|one hundred and ten
but|zero|unhappi|chanc|through|time|s|disastr|lot
our|other|fellow|street|lie|utter|forgot
as|icn|that|set|out|from|yarmouth|in|the|east
by|the|iceni|then|be|general|possest
was|of|that|peopl|first|term|d|icn|in|her|race|one hundred and fifteen
upon|the|chiuern|here|that|did|my|cours|imbrac
into|the|drop|south|and|bear|then|outright
upon|the|solent|sea|stopt|on|the|isleoijfight
and|rickneld|forth|that|raught|from|cambria|s|farther
shore
where|south|jfale|now|shoot|forth|saint|david|s|proraon
tore|ii|o
and|on|his|mid|way|near|did|me|in|england|meet
then|in|his|obliqu|cours|the|lusti|straggl|street
soon|overtook|the|foss|and|toward|the|fall|of|tine
into|the|german|sea|dissolv|d|at|his|declin|iyou
here|jfafl|would|have|cea|d|his|tale|as|have|told
but|now|this|flood|that|fain|the|street|in|talk|would|hold
those|ancient|thing|to|hear|which|well|old|watj|knew
with|these|entic|word|her|fiin|forward|drew
right|nobl|street|quoth|he|thou|hast|liv|d|long|gone
far
much|traffic|had|in|peac|much|travail|in|war|one hundred and thirty
watlinr|the|chief|est|of|the|four|great|way
not|far|from|dundabk
two hundred|polyolbion
and|in|tliy|larger|cours|surveyst|as|sundri|ground
where|i|poor|flood|am|lock|d|within|these|narrow
bound
and|like|my|ruin|d|self|these|ruin|onli|see
and|there|remain|not|one|to|piti|them|or|me
on|with|thi|former|speech|i|pray|thee|somewhat|say|one hundred and thirty-five
for|jratllmj|as|thou|art|a|militari|way
thi|stori|of|old|street|like|me|so|avondr|well
that|of|the|ancient|folk|i|fain|would|hear|thee|tell
with|these|persuas|word|smooth|fer|tlie|jfatlingyvan
stroke|her|dusti|face|when|thus|the|street|began|ho
when|onc|their|sevenfold|eul|the|saivn|came|to|rear
and|yet|with|half|this|me|suffic|scarc|were
though|from|the|inland|part|the|britan|they|had|chas|d
then|understand|how|here|themselv|the|saxon|plac|d
where|in|great|britain|s|state|four|peopl|of|her|own|one hundred and forty
were|by|the|sever|name|of|their|abod|well|known
as|in|that|horn|whic|jut|into|the|sea|so|far
wherein|our|deionshir|now|and|furthest|cornwal|are
the|old|danmonii|dwelt|so|hard|again|at|hand
the|durotrig|sat|on|the|dorsetian|sand|one hundred and fifty
and|where|from|sea|to|sea|the|bel|gee|forth|were|let
f|ven|from|sonlhhampton|s|shore|through|j|til|tn|and|somerset
the|jlttrchate|in|bark|unto|the|bank|of|tame
lietwixt|the|celtic|sleev|and|the|sahrinian|stream
one hundred and eleven|saxon|there|set|down|one|kingdom|which|instal|d
and|be|west|they|it|their|western|kingdom|call|d|loo
so|eastward|where|by|tame|the|trlnohant|were|set
i|o|trinov|their|town|for|that|their|name|in|debt
that|london|now|we|term|the|saxon|did|possess
and|their|east|kingdom|call|d|as|essex|doth|express|one hundred
kor|a|more|plain|divis|of|the|english|kingtlom|see|to|the
eleventh|song
so|call|of|the|eautsaxom
tee|sixteenth|song|two hundred and one
the|greatest|part|thereof|and|still|their|name|cloth|bear
though|middleiex|therein|and|part|of|hartford|aver
from|coln|upon|the|west|upon|the|east|to|stour
where|mighti|tame|himself|doth|into|neptun|pour
as|to|our|farthest|rise|where|forth|those|foreland|lean
which|bear|their|chalki|brow|into|the|german|main|icc
the|angl|which|aros|out|of|the|saxon|race
allur|d|with|the|delight|and|fit|of|that|place
where|the|iceni|liv|d|did|set|their|kingdom|down
from|where|the|wallow|sea|those|queachi|wash|drown
that|eji|do|inisl|to|martyr|edmond|s|ditch|in
till|those|norfokian|shore|vast|neptun|doth|inrich
which|farthest|to|the|east|of|this|divid|hh
th|east|aikji|kingdom|then|those|english|did|instyl
and|sussex|seemeth|still|as|with|an|open|mouth|fifteen
those|saxon|rule|to|show|that|of|the|utmost|south
the|name|to|them|assum|d|who|rigor|expel|d
the|kentish|britan|theuc|and|those|rough|woodland|held
from|where|the|good|tame|the|surrian|ground|doth
sweep
until|the|smile|down|salut|the|celtic|deep|one hundred and eighty
where|the|dohuni|dwelt|their|neighbour|cateuclani
cornavii|more|remot|and|where|the|coritani
where|dec|and|merseij|shoot|into|the|irish|sea
wjiich|wellnear|oer|this|part|now|call|england|lay
from|severn|to|the|ditch|that|cut|newmarket|plain|one hundred and eighty-five
and|from|the|bank|of|tame|to|humber|which|contain
so|mani|good|shii|of|mersei|mercia|hight
their|mightier|empir|there|the|middl|english|pight
which|farthest|though|it|raught|yet|there|it|did|not|end
but|ojf|a|king|thereof|it|after|did|extend|one hundred and ninety
beyond|the|bank|of|bee|and|by|a|ditch|he|cut
through|fale|from|north|to|south|into|wide|mercia|put
a|river|upon|tlie|confin|of|sujfolk|and|essex
two hundred and two|polyolbion
wellnear|the|half|thereof|and|from|three|peopl|there
to|whom|three|special|part|divid|just|were
the|ordovic|now|which|northlfal|peopl|be|io5
from|cheshir|which|of|old|divid|was|by|dee
and|from|our|marcher|now|that|were|bemetc|then
and|those|silur|call|d|by|us|the|sonthjval|men
beyond|the|severn|much|the|english|oft|a|took
to|shut|the|britan|up|within|a|littl|nook|two hundred
from|whenc|hy|mersey|s|bank|the|rest|a|kingdom|made
where|in|the|britan|rule|befor|the|brigant|sway|d
the|power|english|there|establish|d|were|to|stand
which|north|from|humber|set|they|term|d|northhumh
laml|stall|d
two|kingdom|which|had|been|with|sever|throne|in
bernitia|hight|the|one|diera|th|other|call|d|two hundred
the|first|from|humber|stretch|d|unto|the|bank|of|tine
which|river|and|the|frith|the|other|did|confin
diera|beareth|through|the|spacious|yorkish|bound
from|durham|down|along|to|the|lancastrian|sound|twenty
with|mersey|and|clear|tine|continu|to|their|fall
to|englandyv|sird|within|the|pict|s|renown|wall
and|did|the|greater|part|of|cumberland|contain
with|whom|the|britan|name|for|ever|shall|remain
who|there|amongst|the|rock|and|mountain|live|long|two hundred and fifteen
when|they|loegria|left|inforc|d|through|power|wrong
bernitia|over|tine|into|yllbania|lay
to|where|the|frithx|fall|out|into|the|german|sea
this|said|the|age|street|sagg|d|sad|on|alon
and|ver|upon|his|cours|now|hast|to|be|gone|two hundred and twenty
t|accompani|his|caln|which|as|she|gentl|glide
doth|kind|liim|imbrac|whom|soon|this|hap|betid
as|cubic|come|on|along|and|chanc|d|to|cast|her|eye
seadept|near|the|shore|t|tlie|cimbrk|land
a|river|ruuiiiiig|by|edtiibrough|into|the|sea
we|sixteenth|song|two hundred and three
upon|that|neighbour|hill|where|harrow|stand|so|high
she|perival|perceiv|d|prank|d|up|with|wreath|of|wheat|two hundred and twenty-five
and|with|exult|term|thus|glori|in|her|seat
whi|should|not|i|be|coy|and|of|my|beauti|nice
sinc|this|my|good|grain|is|held|of|greatest|price|one
no|manchet|can|so|well|the|court|palat|pleas
as|that|made|of|the|meal|fetch|d|from|my|fertil|leaz|two hundred and thirty
their|finest|of|that|kind|compar|with|my|wheat
for|white|of|the|bread|doth|look|like|common|cheat
what|barley|is|there|found|whose|fair|and|beard|ear
make|stouter|english|ale|or|stronger|english|beer|one
the|oat|the|bean|and|peas|with|me|but|puls|are|two hundred and thirty-five
the|coars|and|browner|rye|no|more|than|fitch|and|tare
what|seed|doth|ani|soil|in|england|bring|that|i
beyond|her|most|increas|yet|can|not|multipli
besid|my|sure|abod|next|good|london|is
to|vent|my|fruit|store|that|me|doth|never|miss|two hundred and forty
and|those|poor|baser|thing|they|can|not|put|away
howeer|i|set|my|price|neer|on|my|chapmen|stay
when|present|the|hill|that|maketh|her|a|vale
with|thing|he|had|in|hand|did|interrupt|her|tale
with|hampst|be|fall|n|and|highgat|at|debat|two hundred and forty-five
as|one|befor|them|both|that|would|advanc|his|state
from|either|for|his|height|to|bear|away|the|prais
besid|that|he|alon|rich|perival|survey
but|hampst|plead|himself|in|simpl|to|have|skill
and|therefor|by|desert|to|be|the|noblest|hill|two hundred and fifty
as|one|that|on|his|worth|and|knowledg|doth|reli
in|learn|physic|s|use|and|skil|surgeri|f
and|challengeth|from|them|the|worthiest|place|her|own
sinc|that|old|jfaiung|onc|oer|him|to|pass|was|known
peryval|or|pureval|yieldeth|the|finest|meal|of|enrjland
hainiistcd|excel|for|simpl
hampsttd|hill|famous|for|simpl
two hundred and four|rolyolbion
then|highgat|boast|his|way|which|men|jo|most|fre
quent|two hundred and fifty-five
his|longcontinu|fame|his|high|and|great|descent
appoint|for|a|gate|of|lomion|to|have|been
when|first|the|mighti|brute|that|citi|did|begin
and|that|he|is|the|hill|next|eufield|which|hath|place
a|forest|for|her|pride|though|titl|but|a|cliac|two hundred and sixty
her|purlew|and|her|park|her|circuit|full|as|larg
as|some|perhap|whose|state|requir|a|greater|charg
whose|holt|that|view|the|east|do|wist|stand|to|look
upon|the|wind|cours|of|lee|s|delight|brook
where|mimer|come|iu|invit|her|sister|iknn|ses
amongst|the|chalki|bank|t|increas|their|mistress|train
whom|by|the|dainti|hand|obsequi|they|lead
by|hartford|glide|on|through|mani|a|pleasant|mead
and|come|in|her|cours|to|cross|the|common|fare
for|kind|she|doth|kiss|that|hospit|jfare|aro
yet|scarc|comfort|lee|ala|so|avoebegon
complain|in|her|cours|thus|to|herself|alon
how|should|my|beauti|now|give|iraltham|such|delight
or|i|poor|silli|brook|take|pleasur|in|her|sight
antiqu|for|that|it|stand|so|far|from|view|two hundred and seventy-five
and|would|her|dote|dream|should|be|believ|d|for|true
dare|loud|lie|for|cotn|that|sometim|ship|did|pass
to|verlam|by|her|stream|when|jerttin|famous|was
but|by|these|later|time|suspect|but|to|feign
she|plank|and|anchor|show|her|error|to|maintain|two hundred and eighty-nine
which|were|inde|of|boat|for|pleasur|there|to|row
upon|her|then|a|lake|the|roukiii|ponq|to|sliow
anhen|lome|her|forc|here|did|everi|year|supj|ly
and|at|old|verlam|kept|a|warlik|coloni
but|i|distress|lee|whose|cours|doth|lain|tell|ass
that|what|of|coln|is|said|of|me|none|could|refel
high|woodi|bauk
the|srxteijxtif|hono|two hundred and five
avliom|ilfml|hilt|too|wisn|poor|tjivcr|t|invi|sni
wlicn|li|tlui|crihrl|ihiiir|did|ciiimiiili|hctriy
which|lldilfonl|thcui|hcsicj|would|whoac|n|ivi|there|abodo
and|on|my|sijacion|breast|befor|the|castl|rodo|m
by|vantag|of|my|soil|lie|did|divid|my|stiemtn
that|thoy|mijdit|neer|nitnrn|to|nrilunc|s|watri|realm
and|sinc|distressfid|lee|i|have|been|hift|forlorn
a|byword|to|ach|irook|and|to|the|world|a|scorn
when|s77|a|nyni|h|of|her|whoso|faith|slio|oil|had
prov|d|2y6
and|wliom|of|dl|her|train|lee|most|intir|lov|d
ii|st|so|excess|grifif|ini|mistress|might|invad
thus|by|fair|gentl|sixech|to|patienc|doth|rsna|le
though|you|be|not|so|gr|lt|to|other|as|befor
yet|not|a|jot|for|that|dislik|yourscilf|the|more|ioo
your|case|is|not|alon|nor|is|at|all|so|strang
8ith|everyth|on|earth|subject|itself|to|chang
where|river|sonkitim|ran|is|firm|and|certain|ground
and|when|befor|wcsre|hill|now|stand|lake|are|found
and|tliat|which|most|you|urg|your|bctauti|to|dispoil|lo
doth|recompimis|your|bank|with|quantiti|of|soil
beset|with|raiht|of|swan|that|in|their|wont|pride
do|prune|their|snowi|lume|upon|your|plrisant|si|e
and|ikdmmm|woo|yon|still|and|smile|with|wont|cheer
and|tmncs|as|at|the|first|so|still|doth|hold|you|dear|uu
to|much|b|lov6d|lir|this|scarc|ly|hlmi|had|spoke
but|good|lowlon|s|sight|their|further|purpos|broke
wh|n|tarach|his|cither|bank|a|iorn|d|with|build|fair
the|citi|to|salut|doth|bid|the|muse|pr|i|aro
whose|turret|fane|and|s|ire|when|wist|she|behold
her|wonder|at|tin|sight|thus|strang|sik|unfold|aio
at|thi|great|builder|s|wit|who|is|he|but|wonder|may
nay|of|ilia|wisdom|thus|ensu|time|shall|say
soo|to|the|twelfth|song
two hundred and six|polyolbion
more|than|mortal|man|that|did|this|town|begin
whose|knowledg|found|the|plot|so|fit|to|set|it|in|three hundred and twenty
what|god|or|heaven|power|was|harbour|d|in|thi|breast
from|whom|with|such|success|thi|labour|should|be|blest
built|on|a|rise|bank|within|a|vale|to|stand
and|for|thi|health|soil|chose|gravel|mix|d|with|sand
and|where|fair|tame|his|cours|into|a|crescent|cast|three hundred and twenty-five
that|forc|by|his|tide|as|still|by|her|he|hast
he|might|his|surg|wave|into|her|bosom|send
becaus|too|far|in|length|his|town|should|not|extend
and|to|the|north|and|south|upon|an|equal|reach
two|hill|their|even|bank|do|somewhat|seem|to|stretch|three hundred and thirty
those|two|extrem|wind|from|hurt|it|to|let
and|onli|level|lie|upon|the|rise|and|set
of|all|this|good|isl|where|breath|most|cheer|air
and|everi|way|thereto|the|way|most|smooth|and|fair
as|in|the|fittest|place|by|man|that|could|be|thought|three hundred and thirty-five
to|which|by|land|or|sea|provis|might|l|e|brought
and|such|a|road|for|ship|scarc|all|the|world|command
as|is|the|good|tame|near|avher|unit|s|citi|stand
nor|ani|haven|lie|to|which|is|more|resort
commod|to|bring|as|also|to|transport|three hundred and forty
our|kingdom|that|enrich|d|through|which|we|flourish|d|long
ere|idl|gentri|up|in|such|abound|sprong
now|pestr|all|this|isl|whose|disproport|draw
the|public|wealth|so|dri|and|onli|is|the|becaus
our|gold|goe|out|so|fast|for|foolish|foreign|thing|three hundred and forty-five
which|upstart|gentri|still|into|our|countri|bring
who|their|insati|pride|seek|chiefli|to|maintain
by|that|which|onli|serv|to|use|vile|and|vain
which|our|i|l|un|father|erst|would|have|account|sin
befor|the|cost|coach|and|silken|stock|came|in|three hundred and sixty
the|good|situat|of|louden
the|jsorth|aud|tjouth|wiuda
the|sixteextii|song
twenty
befor|that|indian|weed|so|strong|was|imbrac|d
wherein|such|mighti|sum|we|prodig|wast
that|merchant|long|train|d|up|in|gain|s|deceit|school
and|subt|hadng|learn|d|to|sooth|the|humor|fool
present|their|paint|toy|unto|this|frantic|gull|three hundred and fifty-five
disparag|our|tin|our|leather|corn|and|wool
when|foreign|with|our|them|warm|cloth|and|feed
transport|trash|to|us|of|which|we|neer|had|need
but|whilst|the|angri|muse|thus|on|the|time|exclaim
sith|everyth|therein|consisteth|in|extrem|three hundred
lest|she|inforc|d|with|wrong|her|limit|should|transcend
here|of|this|present|song|she|briefli|make|an|end
tobacco
illust
n|wander|passag|the|muse|return|from|the
wed|somewhat|into|the|land|and|first|to
liarfford|whenc|after|matter|of|descript
to|london
forty-three|thou|saidst|when|verlam|onc|her|head|aloft|did|hear
for|untler|awo|the|br|if|am|intoler|loaden|with
weight|of|the|lloman|govern|and|especi|the|icen
now|norfolk|and|suffolk|men|provok|by|that|cruel|servi
tude|into|which|not|themselv|onli|but|the|wife|also|and
poster|of|their|king|prasutagus|were|even|beyond|right
of|victori|constrain|at|length|breath|for|liberti|and|in
a|further|continu|of|war|have|for|their|general|queen
bludicea|bunduim|or|as|the|differ|of|her|name|is
rebel|against|their|foreign|conqueror|and|in|martial
op|osit|commit|a|slaughter|of|no|less|than|eighty thousand
as|dio|hath|although|tacitus|miss|ten thousand|of|this|number
raii|sack|and|spoih|d|alddon|then|carnalod|itmim|and|also
this|vcruhihi|near|s|aunin|which|were|the|two|chief
towua|of|the|isl|the|first|a|coloni|whereof|the|eighth
sucton|lib|g|cajj|thirty-nine
the|sixteenth|song|two hundred and nine
song|this|a|municip|citi|call|expressli|in|a|catalogu
at|the|end|of|nennius|cmrmuniclp|out|of|a|geluus|i|thus
note|to|you|it|natur|municip|sunt|give|romani|ex
municipii|suo|jure|et|legibus|sul|utentc|muneri|tantum
cum|pop|rom|honorarii|particip|a|quo|muner|capessendo
appellati|vldentur|nullus|alii|necessitatihi|necpi|ullci|ptrp
rom|legeastricti|quhnnunquampop|rom|eorum|fundus|f|actus
essetf|it|differ|from|a|coloni|most|of|all|in|that|a|colon|t
was|a|progeni|of|the|citi|and|this|of|such|as|were|receiv
into|statefavour|and|friendship|by|the|roman|person
the|genius|of|ferlam|that|everfam|spenser|sung
iva|that|citi|which|the|garland|ivor
of|britain|s|pride|deliv|unto|me
by|eoman|victor|which|it|wonn|of|yore
though|nought|at|cdl|hut|ruin|now|i|bee
and|lye|in|mine|own|asji|as|ye|see
verlam|iwa|what|boot|it|that|i|was
sith|now|i|am|but|weed|and|wastful|gras
as|under|the|roman|so|in|the|saxon|time|afterward|it
endur|a|second|ruin|and|out|of|it|corrupt|after|the
abbey|erect|hy|liig|offa|was|generat|that|of|saint
alban|whither|in|later|time|most|of|the|stonework
and|whatsoev|fit|for|build|was|by|the|abbot|tran
late|so|that
now|reniain|no|memori
nor|ant|littl|moniment|to|see
by|which|the|travail|that|fare|that|ivay
this|onc|was|shee|may|warn|be|to|say
municiphim|tacit|annal|fourteen|noct|attic|sixteen|cap|l
t|such|as|live|in|them|were|free|of|rome|but|use|their|own
law|capabl|onli|of|honorari|titl|in|the|roman|state|and|thenc
had|their|name|in|his|lluin|of|linic
t|seven hundred and ninety-five|leiand|ad|cyg|can|not|tipeua|ubi|supra
vol|ti|fourteen
two hundred and ten|polyolbion
the|name|hath|been|thought|from|the|river|there|run
ning|call|ver|and|ilumfrei|lhuld|make|it|as|if|it|were
23cilhan|ie|a|church|upon|fer
forty-seven|thou|sawst|great|burthen|d|ship|through|these|thi
valley|pass
lay|not|here|unlikelihood|to|the|author|s|charg|he
tell|you|more|judici|toward|the|end|of|the|song
but|the|becaus|whi|some|have|thought|so|is|for|that|gll
das|speak|of|s|allan|s|martyrdom|and|his|miracul
pass|through|the|river|at|verlamcestr|call|it|iter|igno
tum|tran|thamesi|fluvii|alveum|so|by|collect|they
guess|that|thame|had|then|his|full|cours|this|way|be
thereto|further|move|by|anchor|and|such|like|here|dig
up|this|conjectur|hath|been|follow|by|that|nobl
muse|thus|in|the|person|of|verlam
and|ivher|the|christuu|thami|tvont|to|slide
in|silver|channel|douiic|along|the|lee
about|whose|flowri|banjc|on|either|side
a|thousand|nymph|with|mirthful|jouitc
were|will|not|to|play|from|all|annoy|free
there|noio|no|river|s|cours|is|to|he|scene
but|moorish|fenn|and|marsh|ever|green
there|also|where|the|unng|ship|tvere|scene
in|liquid|leav|to|cut|their|fomi|icai
a|tlwusand|fisher|numbr|to|have|been
in|that|ivid|lake|look|for|plenteous|praie
offish|tvith|bait|which|they|usd|to|betrai
is|now|no|lake|nor|ani|fisher|store
kor|ever|ship|shall|sail|there|ani|more
ijut|for|this|matter|of|the|thame|those|two|great|anti
in|biev|brit|in|epist|de|excid|britan
all|uiiknowii|passag|over|thame|ypcnser
the|sixteenth|song|two hundred and eleven
quari|leland|and|camden|have|join|in|judgment|against
it|and|for|the|anchor|they|may|be|suppos|of|fishboat
in|larg|pool|which|have|here|been|and|yet|are|left
relic|of|their|name
i7|sinc|us|ms|king|way|molmutius|first|began
near|five hundred|year|befor|our|saviour|this|king|mohmtius
take|it|upon|credit|of|the|british|stori|constitut|diver
law|especi|that|chnrcji|plough|and|higliioay
should|have|liberti|of|sanctuari|by|no|author|vio
labl|that|church|should|be|free|and|enjoy|liberti|for
refug|consent|allow|of|most|nation|have|tole
rate|and|in|this|kingdom|it|be|affirm|also|by|con
stitut|of|king|lucius|a|christian|everi|churchyard
was|a|sanctuar|until|by|act|of|parliament|under|hen
viii|that|licenc|for|protect|of|offenc|be|too
much|abus|was|taken|away|but|whether|now|restor
in|the|last|parliament|avherein|all|statut|concern
abjuralivo|or|sanctuari|mside|befor|thirty-five|eliz|are|repeal
i|examin|not|the|plough|and|husbandmen|have|by|our
statut|and|especi|by|civil|and|persian|law|great
freedom|highway|be|without|except|necessari
as|well|for|peac|as|war|have|been|defend|in|the|pomari
law|and|are|taken|in|our|to|be|in|that|respect|as|they
are|by|implic|of|the|name|the|king|s|higjiivay|and
res|sacrc|et|qui|aliquid|iml|occupaverit|excedendo|fine|et|ter
mino|terrm|sua|dicifurfccissc|purpresfuram|super|ipsum|begem
accord|to|this|privileg|of|mulmufius|in|the|statut|of
one|florilegus|two|zero|fe|eight|cap|fourteen
jacob|sess|i|cap|twenty-five
west|two|cap|twenty|ct|twenty-one|ed|one|district|scaccarii
c|qu|e|res|piguori|oblig|one|seven|executor|et|alibi
xenopli|cyrop|cd|t|if|de|via|public
bract|lib|four|tract|assisxov|diss|c|eleven|s|eight
privileg|place|and|ho|which|trespiisso|there|commit|pur
prestur|upou|the|king
one hundred and forty-two
two hundred and twelve|polyolbion
marlehrldg|it|is|enact|that|none|should|distrain|in|the
king|s|highway|or|the|common|street|but|the|king|and
his|minist|speclalem|authorltatan|ad|hcec|hahentibus|which
i|particular|transcrib|becaus|the|print|book|are
therein|so|general|corrupt|by|addit|of|this|here|cite
in|latin|you|see|it|alter|the|law|much|and|we|have
diver|judgment|that|in|behalf|of|the|king|by|common
bailiff|without|special|author|iststrrss|may|be|taken
as|for|an|amercia|in|the|slieritf|s|torn|or|leet|or|for
parliament|knight|fee|but|the|old|roll|of|the|statut
as|i|have|seen|in|a|fair|ms|examin|by|the|exemplif
for|the|record|itself|is|with|mani|other|lost|had|not|those
word|as|the|regist|also|special|admonish|nor|is|ani
lart|of|that|chapter|in|some|mss|which|i|marvel|at|see
g|we|have|a|formal|writ|ground|upon|it|not|much
imiss|were|it|here|to|rememb|a|wors|fault|but|continu
alli|receiv|in|the|charter|of|the|fwest|art|vii|where
you|read|nulln|forestarius|etc|aliquam|couedam|faciat|nisi
per|vimm|et|sacramentum|xii|liegardalorum|quando|faci
unt|licrardum|tot|forestarii|etc|the|truth|of|the|best
copi|and|so|was|the|record|be|in|this|digest
nullus|forestarius|etc|aliquam|collectam|faciat|et|per|visur
sacramentum|xii|ilegardatorum|quando|faciunt|begardjn
tot|forestarii|ponantur|etc|as|besid|authent|mss|it|is
expressli|in|the|like|charter|almost|word|for|word|given
first|by|king|john|and|print|in|mttjiew|pari|twixt
which|and|that|of|our|common|read|may|he|be|made|a
timedeserv|comparison|were|it|not|for|digress|i
would|speak|of|the|senseless|make|of|bonifac|arch
bishop|of|cantcrhurij|wit|to|the|grand|charter|in|nine
two|tfrv|three|cap|ten|ct|vid|arti|cler|cap|nine|statutum|marl
iiruijr|silii|lestitiittim
mll|i|aitourt|2s2|eight|mrh|two|ibid|one hundred and ninety-four|eleven|jjen|four|fol|one
nineteen|ed|two|2luouri|two hundred and twenty-one|et|two hundred and twenty-five|alibi|uriyiii|fol|ninety-seven|b
liiarta|dc|fore|tii|ad|ms|cuicudata
the|sixteenth|song|two hundred and thirteen
hen|iii|when|as|it|is|plain|that|he|was|not|archbishop
until|twenty-five|the|best|copi|that|ever|i|saw|had|simon|arch
bishop|of|canterburi|which|inde|was|wors|there|be
no|such|prelat|of|that|see|in|those|time|but|the|mis
take|was|by|the|transcrib|turn|the|singl|s|accord
ing|to|the|form|of|write|in|that|age|into|simon|for
stephen|who|was|stephen|of|langton|archbishop|at|that
time|but|i|forget|myself|in|follow|matter|of|my|more
particular|studi|and|return|to|mohmdius|his|constitut
be|general|for|liberti|of|highway|controversi|grew
about|the|cours|and|limit|of|them|whereupon|his|son
king|belin|to|quit|the|subject|of|that|doubt|caus|more
special|these|four|here|present|spoken|of|to|be|made
which|might|be|for|interrupt|passag|both|in|war|and
peac|and|henc|by|the|author|they|are|call|militari
a|name|given|by|the|roman|to|such|highway|as|were
for|their|march|armi|and|inde|by|more|polit|con
ceit|and|judici|author|these|our|way|have|been
thought|a|work|of|the|roman|also|but|their|cours
are|differ|report|and|in|some|part|their|name
also|the|author|call|them|jvatlingstreet|the|foss|iki
nild|and|rickeneld|this|name|of|rickenekl|is|in|randal
of|chester|and|by|him|deriv|from|s|veicic|in|icn
broke|into|hereford|and|so|through|jvorcest|jfaricick
derbi|and|folshir|to|tinmouth|which|upon|the|au
thor|s|credit|report|it|to|me|is|also|justifi|by|a|veri
ancient|deed|of|land|bound|near|bermingliam|in|jvar
wickshir|by|rickeneld|to|endeavour|certainti|in|them
were|but|to|obtrud|unwarrant|conjectur|and|abus
time|and|you|of|ifatl|who|is|here|person|and|so
much|the|more|proper|becaus|verlam|was|call|also|by
the|english|jvatliagchestcr|it|is|said|that|it|went|from
y|camden|roman|lhuid|brevior|brit
two hundred and fourteen|polyolbion
dover|in|kent|and|so|by|avest|of|london|yet|part|of|the
name|seem|to|this|day|left|in|the|middl|of|the|citi|to
this|place|and|thenc|in|a|crook|line|through|shropsshir
by|jvreldn|hill|into|cardigan|but|other|say|from|vcrlam
to|cjiester|and|where|all|is|refer|to|belin|by|geffrey|n
arthur|and|fohjchronicon|anoth|tell|you|that|the|son
of|i|know|not|what|king|jfetld|made|and|denomin
it|the|fois|is|deriv|by|one|consent|out|of|cornwal
into|dcronshir|through|somerset|over|coteswold|by|teuk
buri|along|near|coventri|to|lewest|through|lincoln|to
benoick|and|thenc|to|cath|the|utmost|of|scotland|of
restitut|of|the|other|you|may|be|desper|likkeneld
i|have|told|you|of|in|henri|of|huntingdon|no|such|name
is|found|but|with|the|first|two|ickenild|and|ermingsfreet
ickenud|saith|he|goe|from|eiist|to|ayest|ermingstreet
from|south|to|north|anoth|tell|me|that|ermingstreet
begin|at|s|dewi|and|convey|itself|to|soutluimiiton
which|the|author|hath|attribut|to|ichn|begun|upon
the|word|s|communiti|with|iccn|in|the|eastern|part|it|is
not|in|my|power|to|reconcil|all|these|or|elect|the|best
i|onli|add|that|ermingstreet|which|be|of|english|idiom
seem|to|have|had|it|name|from|ijnnunful|in|that|signi
ficat|wherebi|it|interpret|an|univers|pillar|wor
ship|for|mercuri|presid|of|way|is|like|enough|if
huntingdon|be|in|the|right|make|it|from|south|to|north
to|have|left|it|part|in|stanstreet|in|surrey|where|a|way
made|avith|stone|and|gravel|in|a|soil|on|both|side|veri
differ|continu|near|a|mile|and|thenc|toward|the
eastern|shore|in|sussex|are|some|place|seem|as|other
relic|of|it|but|i|here|determin|nothin
o
polychron|lib|one|cap|de|plat|reg
henric|huntiiigd|hist|one
roger|hoveduu|part|one|fol|two hundred and forty-eight
adam|brcmeii|hist|eccl|cap|five|and|see|to|the|third|soug
the|seventeenth|song
ten
the|argument
to|medway|tame|a|suitor|goe
but|fanci|mole|as|forth|he|flow
her|mother|homesdal|hold|her|in
she|dig|through|earth|the|tame|to|win
great|tame|as|king|of|river|sing
the|catalogu|of|th|english|king
thenc|the|light|muse|to|th|southward|soar
the|surrian|and|sussexian|shore
the|forest|and|the|doicn|survey
with|billet|run|to|those|sea
this|song|of|her|then|cutteth|short
for|thing|to|come|of|much|import
t|length|it|came|to|pass|that|his|and|her|tame
zero|medway|understood|a|nymph|of|wondrous|fame
and|much|desir|were|their|princ|tame|should
prove
if|as|a|wooer|he|could|win|her|maidenlov
that|of|so|great|descent|and|of|so|larg|a|dower|s
might|wellal|their|hous|and|much|increas|his|power
and|strive|to|prefer|their|son|the|best|they|may
set|forth|the|lusti|flood|in|rich|and|brave|array
bank|d|with|imbrod|mead|of|sundri|suit|of|flower
his|breast|adorn|d|with|swan|oft|wash|d|with|silver|shower
two hundred and sixteen|polyolbion
a|train|of|gallant|flood|at|such|a|cost|rate|n
as|might|beseem|their|care|and|fit|his|estat
attend|and|attir|d|magnific|thus
they|send|him|to|the|court|of|great|oceanus
the|world|s|huge|wealth|to|see|yet|with|a|full|intent|i
to|woo|the|love|nymph|fair|medway|as|he|went
wiio|to|his|dame|and|sire|his|duti|scarc|had|done
and|avhilst|they|sad|wept|at|part|of|their|son
see|what|the|tame|befel|when|t|was|suspect|least
as|still|his|good|train|yet|everi|hour|increast|twenty
and|from|the|surrian|shore|clear|jfey|came|down|to|meet
his|great|whom|the|tame|so|gracious|doth|greet
that|with|the|ferncrown|d|flood|he|minionlik|doth|play
yet|is|not|this|tlie|brook|enticeth|him|to|stay
but|as|they|thus|in|omp|came|sport|on|the|shoal|twenty-five
xainst|hamptoncourt|he|meet|the|soft|and|gentl|mole
avhos|eye|so|pierc|d|his|breast|that|seem|to|foreslow
the|way|which|he|so|long|intend|was|to|go
with|trifl|up|and|down|he|wandreth|here|and|there
and|that|he|in|her|sight|transpar|might|appear|thirty
appli|himself|to|ford|and|setteth|his|delight
on|that|which|most|might|make|him|gracious|in|her|sight
tlien|isl|and|the|tame|from|their|conjoin|bed
desir|still|to|learn|how|tame|their|son|had|sped
for|great|they|had|hop|d|his|time|had|so|been|spent|thirty-five
that|he|ere|this|had|won|the|good|heir|of|kent
and|send|to|enquir|had|news|return|d|again
by|such|as|they|imploy|d|on|purpos|in|his|train
how|this|their|onli|heir|the|ide|emperi|flood
had|loiter|thus|in|love|neglect|of|his|good|forty
no|marvel|at|the|news|though|ousei|and|tame|were|sad
more|comfort|of|tlieir|son|expect|to|have|had|show|d
nor|blame|them|in|their|look|much|sorrow|though|they
come|iji|ftruham|so|call|oicru|there|grome|f|lau
the|seventeenth|song|2li
who|fear|lest|lie|might|thus|mean|be|bestow|d
and|know|danger|still|increas|by|delay|4s
employ|their|utmost|power|to|hasten|him|away
but|tame|would|hard|on|oft|turn|back|to|show
from|his|muchdov|mole|how|loth|he|was|to|go
the|mother|of|the|3ioie|old|homesdal|likewis|bear
th|affect|of|her|child|as|i|will|as|they|do|their|five
who|nobli|though|deriv|d|yet|could|have|been|content
t|have|match|d|her|with|a|flood|of|far|more|mean|descent
but|mole|respect|her|word|as|vain|and|idl|dream
compar|d|with|that|high|joy|to|be|belov|d|of|tame
and|headlong|hold|her|cours|his|compani|to|win|s5
but|homesdal|rais|hill|to|keep|the|straggler|in
that|of|her|daughter|s|stay|she|need|no|more|to|doubt
yet|never|was|theie|help|but|love|could|find|it|out
mole|dig|herself|a|path|by|work|day|and|night
accord|to|her|name|to|show|her|natur|right|so
and|underneath|the|earth|for|three|mile|space|doth|creep
till|gotten|out|of|sight|quit|from|her|mother|s|keep
her|foreintend|cours|the|wanton|nymph|doth|run
as|long|to|imbrac|old|tane|and|isl|son|take
when|tame|now|understood|what|pain|the|mole|did
how|far|the|love|nymph|adventur|d|for|his|sake|sixty-six
although|with|medwai|match|d|yet|never|could|remov
the|often|quickn|spark|of|his|more|ancient|love
so|that|it|come|to|pass|when|by|great|natur|s|guid
the|ocean|doth|return|and|thrustetliin|the|tide|to
up|towrd|the|place|where|first|his|muchlov|d|mole|was
seen
he|ever|sinc|doth|flow|beyond|delight|sheen
then|jrandal|cometh|in|the|mole|s|belov6d|mate
so|amiabl|fair|so|pure|so|dehcat
a|veri|woodi|vale|in|stini
tame|obb|and|tluw|beyond|richmond
two hundred and eighteen|polyolbion
so|plump|so|full|so|fresh|her|eye|so|wondrous|clear|rs
and|first|unto|her|lord|at|jfandsworth|doth|appear
that|in|the|good|court|of|their|great|sovereign|tame
there|might|no|other|speech|be|had|amongst|the|stream
but|onli|of|this|nymph|sweet|jfandal|what|she|wore
of|her|complexion|grace|and|how|herself|she|bore|so
but|now|this|mighti|flood|upon|his|voyag|prest
that|found|how|with|his|strength|his|beauti|still|increast
from|where|brave|jfindsor|stood|on|tipto|to|behold
the|fair|and|good|tame|so|far|as|ere|he|could
with|king|hous|crown|d|of|more|than|earth|pride|ss
upon|his|either|bank|as|he|along|doth|glide
with|wonder|delight|doth|his|long|cours|pursu
where|otland|hamptoncourt|and|pdchmond|he|doth|view
then|jfest|minster|the|next|great|tame|doth|entertain
that|vaunt|her|palac|larg|and|her|most|sumptuous|fane
the|land|s|tribun|seat|that|challengeth|for|her|ninety-one
the|crown|of|our|king|their|famous|sepulchr
then|goe|he|on|along|by|that|more|beauteous|strand
express|both|the|wealth|and|bravri|of|the|land
so|mani|sumptuous|bower|within|so|littl|space|five
the|allbehold|sun|scarc|see|in|all|his|race
and|on|by|london|lead|which|like|a|crescent|lie
whose|window|seem|to|mock|the|starbefreckl|sky
besid|her|rise|spire|so|thick|themselv|that|show
as|do|the|bristl|reed|witliin|his|bank|that|grow|aoo
there|see|his|crowd|wharf|and|peoplcpestr|shore
his|bosom|overspread|with|shoal|of|labour|oar
with|that|most|cost|bridg|that|doth|liini|most|renown
by|which|he|clear|put|all|other|river|down
thus|furnishd|d|with|all|that|appertain|d|to|state|one hundred and five
desir|by|the|flood|his|great|which|await
london|ijinj|like|a|halfmoon
loiidonbriilija|tlie|crown|of|tame
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and nineteen
that|as|the|rest|befor|so|somewhat|he|would|sing
both|worthi|of|their|prais|and|of|himself|their|king
a|catalogu|of|those|the|sceptr|here|that|sway|d
the|princ|tame|recit|and|thus|his|song|he|laid|no
as|bastard|jfiuiam|first|by|conquest|hither|came
and|brought|the|norman|rule|upon|the|english|name
so|with|a|tedious|war|and|almost|endless|toil
throughout|his|troubl|reign|here|held|his|hardgot|spoil
deceas|at|the|last|through|his|unsettl|state|lis
left|with|his|i|willgot|crown|unnatur|debat
for|die|at|his|home|his|eldest|son|abroad
who|in|the|holywar|his|person|then|bestow|d
his|second|eufus|next|usurp|d|the|wrong|reign
and|by|a|fatal|dart|in|his|new|forest|slain|one hundred and twenty
whilst|in|his|proper|right|religi|robert|slept
through|craft|into|the|throne|the|younger|i|f|wcertr|crept
from|whom|his|sceptr|then|whilst|robert|strove|to|wrest
the|other|of|his|power|that|ampli|was|possest
with|him|in|battl|join|d|and|in|that|dread|day|one hundred and twenty-five
where|fortun|show|d|herself|all|human|power|to|sway
duke|robert|went|to|wrack|and|taken|in|the|flight
was|by|that|cruel|king|deprivt|d|of|his|sight
and|in|close|prison|put|where|miser|he|die
but|henri|s|whole|intent|was|by|just|heaven|deni|lao
for|as|of|light|and|life|he|that|sad|lord|bereft
so|his|to|whom|the|land|he|purpo|d|to|have|left
the|rage|sea|devour|d|as|hitherward|they|sail|d
when|in|this|line|direct|the|conqnerof|issu|fail|d
twbct|henri|s|daughter|mauld|the|almayn|emperour|s
bride|one hundred and thirty-five
which|after|to|the|earl|of|anjou|was|affi|d
and|stephen|earl|of|bloy|the|conqueror|s|sister|s|son
a|fierc|and|cruel|war|immedi|begun
see|the|last|note|to|tho|fourth|song
two hundred and twenty|polyolbion
who|with|their|sever|power|arriv|here|from|franc
by|forc|of|hostil|arm|their|titl|to|advanc|i4o
but|stephen|what|by|coin|and|what|by|foreign|strength
through|world|of|danger|gain|d|the|glorious|goal|at|length
but|left|without|an|heir|the|empress|issu|next
no|titl|els|on|foot|upon|so|fair|pretext
the|second|henri|soon|upon|the|throne|was|set|one hundred and forty-five
which|mauld|to|jeffrey|bare|the|first|plantagenet
who|held|strong|war|with|wale|that|his|subject|spurn|d
whiich|oftentim|he|beat|and|beaten|oft|return|d
with|his|stern|children|vex|d|who|whilst|he|strove|t|advanc
his|right|within|this|isl|rai|d|war|on|him|in|franc|one hundred and fifty
with|his|high|fame|in|fight|what|cold|breast|was|not|fir|d
through|all|the|western|world|for|wisdom|most|admir|d
then|richard|got|the|eul|his|most|renown|son
whose|courag|him|the|name|of|cure|de|lion|won|born
with|those|first|earth|god|had|this|brave|princ|been
his|dare|hand|had|from|alcicl|shoulder|torn|one hundred and fifty
the|nemean|lion|s|hide|who|in|the|holyland
so|dread|was|as|thoug|from|jove|and|neptun|s|hand
the|thundr|threefork|d|fire|and|trident|he|had|reft
and|him|to|rule|their|charg|they|onli|then|had|left|leo
him|john|again|succeed|who|have|putaway
young|arthur|liichard|s|son|the|sceptr|took|to|sway
who|of|the|commonwealth|first|havoc|have|made
his|sacrilegi|hand|upon|the|church|laid
in|cruelti|and|rape|continu|out|his|reign|les
that|his|outrag|lust|and|cours|to|restrain
the|baronag|were|forc|d|defens|arm|to|rais
their|daughter|to|redeem|that|he|by|forc|would|seiz
which|the|first|civil|war|in|england|here|begun
and|for|his|sake|such|hate|his|son|young|henri|won|i7o
that|to|d|pose|their|princ|th|reveng|peopl|thought
and|from|the|line|of|franc|young|lewi|to|have|brought
the|seventeextii|song|two hundred and twenty-one
to|take|on|him|our|eul|but|henri|got|the|throne
by|his|more|forc|friend|who|wise|and|puissant|grown
the|general|charter|seiz|d|that|into|slavrey|drew|ji
the|freestborn|english|blood|of|which|such|discord|grew
and|in|the|barous|breast|so|rough|combust|rai|d
with|much|expens|of|blood|as|long|was|not|appea|d
by|strong|and|tedious|gust|held|up|on|either|side
betwixt|the|princ|and|peer|with|equal|power|and
pride|iso
he|knew|the|worst|of|war|match|d|with|the|baron|strong
yet|victor|liv|d|and|reign|d|both|happili|and|long
this|longliv|d|princ|expir|d|the|next|succeed|he
of|us|that|for|a|god|might|well|relat|be
our|longshank|scotland|s|scourg|who|to|the|orcadsraught
his|sceptr|and|with|him|from|wild|albania|brought|ise
the|reliqu|of|her|crown|by|him|first|place|here
the|seat|on|which|her|king|inaugur|were
he|tam|d|the|desper|welsh|that|out|so|long|had|stood
and|made|them|take|a|princ|sprung|of|the|english|blood
this|isl|from|sea|to|sea|he|general|control|d|loo
and|made|the|other|part|of|england|both|to|hold
this|edivard|first|of|our|a|second|then|ensu
who|both|his|name|and|birth|by|loos|did|abus
fair|ganym|and|fool|who|rai|d|to|princ|place|one hundred and ninety-three
and|chose|not|men|for|wit|but|onli|for|their|face
in|parasit|and|knave|as|he|repo|d|his|trust
who|sooth|d|him|in|his|way|appar|unjust
for|that|preposter|sin|wherein|he|did|offend
in|his|posterior|part|had|his|preposter|end|two hundred
a|third|then|of|that|name|amend|for|this|did|make
who|from|his|idl|sire|seem|d|nought|at|all|to|take
but|as|his|grandsir|did|his|empir|s|verg|advanc
so|led|he|forth|his|power|into|the|heart|of|franc
sec|befor|to|the|ninth|song
two hundred and twenty-two|rolyolbiok
and|fastn|on|that|right|he|by|his|mother|had|ao5
against|the|saliqu|law|which|utterlj|forbad
their|women|to|inherit|to|propag|his|becaus
at|cressey|with|his|sword|first|cancel|those|law
then|like|a|furious|storm|through|troubl|franc|he|ran
and|by|the|hope|hand|of|brave|black|edward|wan|2in
proud|poijtier|where|king|john|he|valiant|subdu|d
the|miser|french|and|there|in|mammock|hew|d
then|avit|bis|batter|ram|made|earthquak|in|their
till|trampl|in|the|dust|herself|she|yield|our|tower
as|migbti|edward|s|heir|to|a|second|richard|then|two hundred and fifteen
son|to|that|famous|princ|black|edward|man|of|men
untim|that|befor|his|conquer|father|die
too|soon|the|kingdom|fell|who|his|vain|youth|appli
to|wanton|and|spoil|and|did|to|favour|draw
unworthi|ignor|sot|with|whose|dull|eye|he|saw|two hundred and twenty
avho|plac|d|their|like|in|court|and|made|them|great|in|state
which|wise|and|virtuous|men|beyond|all|plagu|might
to|whom|he|blind|gave|who|blmdli|spent|again|hate
and|oft|oppress|d|his|land|their|riot|to|maintain
he|hate|his|alli|and|the|deserv|sterv|d|two hundred and twenty-six
ii|minion|and|his|will|the|god|he|onli|serv|d
and|final|depo|d|as|he|was|ever|friend
to|ribald|so|again|by|villain|had|his|end
henri|the|son|of|gaunt|supplant|liichard|then
ascend|to|the|throne|when|discont|men|two hundred and thirty
desir|first|of|chang|which|to|that|height|him|brought
deceiv|of|their|end|into|his|action|sought
and|as|they|set|him|up|assay|d|to|pluck|him|down
from|whom|he|hard|held|his|i|willachiev|crown
that|treason|to|suppress|which|oft|he|did|disclos|twenty-three
ami|rais|public|arm|against|his|power|foe
his|usurp|still|ijc|troubl|to|maintain
his|short|disquiet|day|scarc|raught|a|peac|reign
the|sevejteenth|song|two hundred and twenty-three
a|fifth|succeed|the|fourth|but|how|his|father|got
the|crown|by|right|or|wrong|the|son|respecteth|not|two hundred and forty
nor|further|hope|for|that|eer|leaveth|to|pursu
but|doth|his|claim|to|franc|courag|renew
upon|her|wealthi|shore|unlad|his|warlik|fraught
and|show|us|the|field|where|our|brave|father|fought
first|drew|his|sunbright|sword|reflect|such|a|light|two hundred and forty-five
as|put|sad|guilti|franc|into|so|great|a|fright
that|her|pale|genius|sank|which|trembl|seem|d|to|stand
when|first|he|set|his|foot|on|her|rebelli|land
that|all|his|grandsir|s|deed|did|over|and|thereto
those|high|achiev|add|the|former|could|not|do|two hundred and fifty
at|agincourf|proud|fight|that|quit|put|poijtler|down
of|all|that|time|who|liv|d|the|king|of|most|renown
whose|too|untim|end|the|fate|too|soon|did|hast
whose|nine|year|nobl|act|nine|world|deserv|to|last
a|sixth|in|name|succeed|born|great|the|mighti|son|two hundred and fifty-five
of|him|in|england|s|right|that|spacious|franc|had|won
who|come|young|to|reign|protect|by|the|peer
until|his|nonag|out|and|grown|to|riper|year
prov|d|upright|soft|and|meek|in|no|wise|love|war
but|fitter|for|a|cowl|than|for|a|crown|by|far|26o
whose|mild|overmuch|did|his|destruct|bring
a|wondrous|god|man|but|not|so|good|a|king
like|whom|yet|never|man|tri|fortun|s|chang|so|oft
so|mani|time|throwndown|so|mani|time|aloft|26t
when|with|the|utmost|power|their|friend|could|them|afford
the|yorkist|put|their|right|upon|the|dint|of|sword
as|still|he|lost|and|won|in|that|long|bloodi|war
from|those|two|faction|styl|d|of|york|and|lancast
but|by|his|foe|inforc|d|to|yield|him|to|their|power
his|wretch|reign|and|life|both|end|in|the|tower|2v0
of|th|edward|name|the|fourth|put|on|the|kogal|wreath
whom|furious|bloodi|war|that|seem|d|awhil|to|breath
two hundred and twenty-four|polyolbion
not|utter|forsook|for|henri|s|queen|and|heir
their|onc|possess|reign|still|seek|to|repair
put|forward|with|their|friend|their|titl|to|maintain|two hundred and seventy-five
whose|blood|did|barnev|street|and|tenhhiri|distain
till|no|man|left|to|stir|the|titl|then|at|rest
the|old|lancastrian|line|be|utter|supprest
himself|the|wanton|king|to|amor|pleasur|gave
yet|jealous|of|his|right|descend|to|his|grave|two hundred and eighty
his|son|an|infant|left|who|had|he|liv|d|to|reign
edward|the|fifth|had|been|but|just|see|again
as|he|a|king|and|princ|befor|had|caus|d|to|die
the|father|in|the|tower|the|son|at|teulcsburi
so|were|his|children|young|be|left|to|be|protect|two hundred and eighty-five
by|bichard|who|nor|god|nor|human|law|respect
this|viper|this|most|vile|devourcr|of|his|kind
whom|his|ambiti|end|had|strook|so|grossli|blind
from|their|dear|mother|s|lap|them|seiz|for|a|prey
himself|in|right|the|next|could|they|be|made|away|two hundred
most|wrong|usurp|d|and|them|in|prison|kept
whom|cruelli|at|last|lie|smother|as|they|slept
as|his|unnatur|liand|were|in|their|blood|imbru|d
so|guilti|in|himself|with|murther|he|pursu|d
such|on|his|heinous|act|as|look|d|not|fair|and|right|two hundred and ninety-five
yea|such|as|were|not|his|expressli|and|had|might
t|oppos|him|in|his|cours|till|as|a|monster|loth|d
the|man|to|hell|and|death|himself|that|had|betroth|d
they|brought|anoth|in|to|thrust|that|tyrant|down
in|battl|who|at|last|resign|d|both|life|and|crown|three hundred
a|seventh|henri|then|th|imperi|seat|attain|d
tn|banish|who|long|in|britann|had|remain|d
what|time|the|yorkist|sought|his|life|to|have|bereft
jf|the|liincaslrian|hous|then|onli|be|left
ijeriv|d|from|jahn|of|gaunt|whom|ulchmund|did|beget|no5
upon|a|langlit|born|to|john|of|somerset
tbe|seventeenth|song|two hundred and twenty-five
elizabeth|of|york|this|nobl|princ|afl|would
to|make|his|titl|strong|therebi|on|either|side
and|graft|of|the|jfhuc|and|bed|eos|firm|togeth
was|first|that|to|the|throne|advanc|d|the|name|of|tether
in|bosicortk|s|fatal|field|who|have|richard|slain|three hundred and eleven
then|in|that|prosper|peac|of|his|success|reign
of|all|that|ever|rul|d|was|most|precis|in|state
and|in|his|life|and|death|a|king|most|fortun
this|seventh|that|was|of|our|the|eighth|succeed|in
name
who|by|princ|arthur|s|death|his|elder|brother|came|three hundred and sixteen
unto|a|land|with|wealth|abound|that|flow|d
abound|again|so|he|the|same|bestow|d
in|banquet|mask|and|tilt|all|pleasur|prone|to|tri
besid|his|secret|scape|who|lov|d|jiolygami|three hundred and twenty
the|abbey|he|supprest|a|thousand|lingr|year
which|with|revenu|larg|the|world|had|sought|to|rear
and|through|his|a|vvful|might|for|tempor|end|did|save
to|other|use|erst|what|frank|devot|gave
and|here|the|papal|power|first|utter|deni|d|three hundred and twenty-five
defend|of|the|faith|that|was|instyl|d|and|dy|d
his|son|the|empir|had|our|edward|sixth|that|made
untim|as|he|sprang|untim|who|did|fade
a|protest|be|bred|and|in|his|infant|reign
th|religion|then|receiv|d|here|stout|did|maintain|three hundred and thirty
but|ere|he|raught|to|man|from|his|sad|peopl|reft
his|sceptr|he|again|unto|his|sister|left
of|which|the|eldest|of|two|queen|illari|riount|the|chair
the|ruin|d|rawvm|state|who|strive|to|repair
with|persecut|hand|the|protest|pursu|d|three hundred and thirty-five
whose|martyr|ash|oft|the|wondr|street|bestrew|d
she|match|d|herself|with|skiin|and|brought|king|philip
hither
which|with|an|equal|baud|the|sceptr|sway|d|togith
vol|ii|fifteen
two hundred and twenty-six|polyolbion
but|issueless|she|dym|and|under|six|year|reign
to|her|wise|sister|gave|the|kingdom|up|again|three hundred and forty
elizabeth|the|next|this|fall|sceptr|hent
digress|from|her|sex|with|manlik|govern
this|island|kept|in|awe|and|did|her|power|extend
afflict|franc|to|aid|her|own|as|to|defend
against|th|iberian|rule|the|fleme|sure|defenc|3i5
liud|ireland|s|dead|scourg|who|sent|her|navi|henc
unto|the|nether|hide|and|to|that|shore|so|green
virginia|wliich|we|call|of|her|a|virgin|queen
in|portug|gainst|spain|her|english|ensign|spread
took|cale|when|from|her|aid|the|brav|d|iberia|fled|three hundred and fifty
must|flourish|in|state|that|all|our|king|among
scarc|ani|rul|d|so|well|but|two|that|reign|d|so|long
here|sudden|he|stay|d|and|with|his|king|song
avhilst|yet|on|everi|side|the|citi|loud|rong
he|with|the|eddi|turn|d|a|space|to|look|about|three hundred and fifty-five
the|tide|retir|soon|did|strong|thrust|him|out
and|soon|the|pliant|ius|doth|her|brave|wing|advanc
towrd|those|seabordr|shore|of|our|that|point|at
franc
the|harder|sirrrian|heath|and|the|sussexian|down
which|with|so|great|increas|though|natur|do|not|crown
as|mani|other|shire|of|this|inviron|d|isl|sei
yet|on|the|yether|s|head|t|when|as|the|sun|doth|smile
xur|d|by|the|southern|wind|that|soft|and|gentl|blow
here|doth|the|lusti|i|ip|as|soon|begin|to|flow
tlie|earth|as|soon|put|on|her|gaudi|summer|s|suit|ses
the|wood|as|soon|in|green|and|orchard|great|with|fruit
to|seaward|from|the|seat|where|first|our|song|begun
exhal|to|the|south|by|the|ascend|sun
eour|state|woodnymph|stand|on|the|sussexian|ground
hfnri|one hundred and eleven|uud|edward|iii|the|one|reign|fiftysix|the
other|tifti|t|the|siui|iu|aran
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and twenty-seven
great|andredswelct|s|sometim|who|when|she|did|abound
in|circuit|and|in|growth|all|other|quit|suppress|d|iti
but|in|her|wane|of|pride|as|she|in|strength|decrea|d
her|nymph|assum|d|them|name|each|one|to|her|delight
as|jfaferdoicn|so|call|d|of|her|depress|site
and|ashdown|of|those|tree|that|most|in|her|do|grow|ar
set|higher|to|the|down|as|th|other|standeth|low
saint|leonard|s|of|the|seat|by|which|she|next|is|plac|d
and|whord|that|with|the|like|delighteth|to|be|grac|d
these|forest|as|i|say|the|daughter|of|the|weald
that|in|their|heavi|breast|had|long|their|grief|conceal|d
forese|their|decay|each|hour|so|fast|came|on|38i
under|the|axe|s|stroke|fetch|d|mani|a|grievous|groan
vlien|as|the|anvil|s|weight|and|hammer|s|dread|sound
even|rent|the|hollow|wood|and|shook|the|c|ueachi|ground
so|that|the|trembl|nymph|oppress|through|ghast|fear
ran|mad|to|the|down|with|loos|dishevel|d|hair|ss
the|sylvan|that|about|the|neighbour|wood|did|dwell
both|in|the|tufti|frith|and|in|the|mossi|fell
forsook|their|gloomi|bowr|and|wandr|far|abroad
expel|d|their|quiet|seat|and|place|of|their|abod|three hundred and ninety
when|labour|cart|they|saw|to|hold|their|daili|trade
where|they|in|summer|will|not|to|sport|them|in|the|shade
could|we|say|they|suppos|that|ani|would|us|cherish
which|suffer|everi|day|the|holiest|thing|to|perish
r|to|our|daili|want|to|minist|suppli|one|three hundred and ninety-five
hese|iron|time|breed|none|that|mind|poster
ris|but|in|vain|to|tell|what|we|befor|have|been
3r|chang|of|tlie|world|that|we|in|time|have|seen
when|not|devis|how|to|spend|our|wealth|with|wast
we|to|the|savag|swine|let|fall|our|lard|mast|four hundred
but|now|ala|ourselv|we|have|not|to|sustain
nor|can|our|top|suffic|to|shield|our|root|from|rain
a|forest|contaiu|most|part|of|kent|sussex|and|san|y
one hundred and fifty-two
two hundred and twenty-eight|polyolbion
jove|s|oak|the|warlik|ash|vein|d|elm|the|softer|beech
short|hazel|mapl|plain|light|asp|the|bend|wych
tough|holli|and|smooth|birch|must|altogeth|burn|four hundred and five
what|should|the|builder|serv|suppli|the|forger|s|turn
when|under|public|good|base|privat|gain|take|hold
and|we|poor|woeful|wood|to|ruin|last|sold|spoke
this|utter|d|they|with|grief|and|more|they|would|have
but|that|the|envious|down|int|open|laughter|broke|four hundred and ten
as|joy|in|those|want|which|jstatur|them|had|given
sith|to|as|great|distress|the|forest|should|be|driven
like|him|that|long|time|hath|anoth|s|state|envi|d
and|see|a|follow|ebb|unto|his|former|tide
the|more|he|is|depress|d|and|bnii|d|with|fortun|s|might
the|larger|rein|his|foe|doth|give|to|his|despight|41g
so|did|the|envious|down|but|that|again|the|flood
their|fountain|that|deriv|from|those|unpiti|wood
and|so|much|grace|thi|down|as|through|their|dale|they
creep
their|glori|to|convey|unto|the|cclhcjc|deep|four hundred and twenty
it|veri|liard|took|much|murmur|at|their|pride
clear|lavunt|tliat|doth|keep|the|southamptoiiian|side
divid|it|wellnear|from|the|sussedan|land
that|selseij|doth|survey|and|solent|s|troubl|sand
to|chichest|their|wrong|impati|doth|tell|four hundred and twenty-six
and|arun|which|doth|name|the|beauteous|arundeu
as|on|her|cours|she|came|it|to|her|forest|told
which|nettl|with|the|news|had|not|the|power|to|hold
but|break|into|rage|wish|d|tempest|them|might|rive
and|on|their|barren|scalp|still|int|and|chalk|miglit|thrive
the|brave|and|nobler|wood|which|base|thus|upbraid|four hundred and thirty-one
and|adur|come|on|to|shoreham|soft|said
the|down|did|veri|i|will|poor|wood|so|to|debas
but|now|the|oiis|a|nymph|of|veri|scorn|grace
so|touchi|wax|d|therewith|and|was|so|squeamish|grown|four hundred and thirty-five
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and twenty-nine
that|her|old|name|she|scorn|d|should|public|be|known
whose|haven|out|of|mind|when|as|it|almost|grew
the|late|pass|time|denomin|the|new
so|ciicmer|avith|the|rest|put|to|her|utmost|might
as|ashburn|undertak|to|do|the|forest|right|four hundred and forty
at|pemsey|where|she|pour|her|soft|and|gentler|flood
and|asten|onc|distain|d|with|nativ|english|blood
whose|soil|when|yet|but|wet|with|ani|littl|rain
doth|blush|as|put|in|mind|of|those|there|sad|slain
when|hast|harbour|gave|unto|the|norman|power|four hundred and forty-five
whose|name|and|honour|now|are|denizen|d|for|our
that|bode|omin|brook|it|through|the|forest|rung
which|echo|it|again|the|mighti|weald|along
great|stir|was|like|to|grow|but|that|the|muse|did|charm
their|furi|and|herself|for|nobler|thing|did|arm|o
newhaven
le
illust
fter|your|travel|thus|led|by|the|muse|through
the|inland|out|of|the|welsh|coast|maritim|here
are|you|carri|into|surrey|and|sussex|the
southern|shire|from|london|to|the|ocean|and
thame|as|king|of|all|our|river|summarili|sing|the
king|of|england|from|norman|william|to|yesterday|s|age
fifty|mole|dig|herself|a|path|hy|worl|day|and|night
this|mole|run|into|the|earth|about|a|mile|from|bark
in|surrey|and|after|some|two|mile|see|the|light|again
which|to|be|certain|hath|been|affirm|by|inhabit|there
about|report|trial|made|of|it|of|the|eiver|deveril|near
irarmlsi|in|jfllishir|is|said|as|much|and|more|of
alpheus|run|out|of|eli|a|part|of|the|now|morca
ancient|peloponnesus|in|greec|through|the|vast|ocean|to
arethusa|in|a|littl|isl|close|by|syracus|of|sicili|call
ortygia|and|tliither|thus|come|unmix|with|the|sea
which|hath|been|lioth|tri|by|a|cup|lost|in|eh|and|other
stuff|of|the|olyinpian|sacrific|there|cast|up|and|is|justifi
also|by|express|assert|of|an|old|oracl|to|archia|a
corinthian|advis|him|he|should|hither|deduc|a|coloni
strab|gcograph|six
pausan|eliac
the|seventeent|song|two hundred and thirty-one
like|this|faiisania|reckon|more|erashi|in|greec|lycus
that|run|into|meander|tiger|and|diver|other|some|re
member|for|such|qualiti|and|gaudiana|the|ancient|limit
of|foiiufal|and|the|beetiqii|spain|is|special|famous|for
this|form|of|subterranean|cours|which|al|thou|two|h|hath|been
thought|fabul|yet|by|some|learn|and|judici|of|that
countri|is|put|for|an|unfeign|truth
twelve|he|ever|sinc|doth|flow|beyond|delight|sheen
mole|s|fall|into|thame|is|near|the|utmost|of|the|flood
which|from|the|german|ocean|is|about|sixti|mile|scarc
equal|i|think|by|ani|other|river|in|europ|whereto
you|may|attribut|it|continu|so|long|a|cours|unless|to
the|diurnal|motion|of|the|heaven|or|moon|from|east|to
west|which|hard|in|ani|other|river|of|note|fall|into
so|great|a|sea|will|be|found|so|agreeabl|as|to|this|flow
the|same|way|and|to|the|easi|of|the|channel|be|not
over|creeki|i|can|not|guess|i|inclin|to|this|of|the|hea
ven|becaus|such|testimoni|is|of|the|ocean|s|perpetu
motion|in|that|kind|and|whether|it|be|for|frequenc|of|a
wind|and|therebi|more|resist|shore|or|for|ani|other
reason|judici|not|yet|discov|it|is|certain|that|our
coast|are|most|famous|for|the|greatest|differ|by|ebb
and|flood|befor|all|other|whatsoev
one hundred and sixteen|left|ivith|his|i|willgot|crown|unnatur|debat
see|what|the|matter|of|descent|to|the|fourth|song|tell
you|of|his|titl|yet|even|out|of|his|own|mouth|as|part|of
there|alpjiem|springeth|again|embrac|fair|arrthusa
herodot|hist|jdom|z|polyhjtii
eight|justin|hist|forty-two|ludov|nonius|in|v|hispan
scalig|de|subtilit|exercitat|fifty-two
two hundred and thirty-two|poltolbion
his|last|will|and|testament|these|word|are|report|one
constltid|no|heir|of|the|crown|of|england|hut|to|the|univers
creator|whose|i|am|and|in|whose|hand|are|all|thing|i|coin
mend|it|for|i|had|it|not|hy|inherit|hut|with|dire|con
flict|and|much|effus|of|blood|i|foojc|it|from|that|perjur
harold|and|hij|death|of|his|favourit|have|i|subdu|it|to|my
empir|and|somewhat|after|therefor|i|dare|not|bequeath
the|sceptr|of|this|kingdom|to|ani|but|to|god|done|lest|after|my
death|you|wse|troubl|happen|in|it|hy|my|occas|for|my|son
william|alivay|as|it|becam|him|obedi|to|me|i|udsh|that
god|may|give|him|his|grace|and|that|if|so|it|pleas|the|al
mighti|lie|may|reign|after|me|this|william|the|ii|call
fiufus|ava|his|second|son|lobert|his|eldest|have|upon
discont|taken|becaus|the|dukedom|of|normandi|then
as|it|were|by|birthright|near|like|the|princip|of
wale|ancient|or|duchi|of|cornwal|at|this|day|belong
ing|to|our|king|heirsappar|was|deni|him|revolt
unnatur|and|move|war|against|him|aid|hy|philip|i
of|franc|which|caus|his|merit|disinherit|twixt
this|william|and|foberf|as|also|twixt|him|and|henri|i|all
brother|and|son|to|the|conqueror|were|diver|opposit
for|the|kingdom|and|dukedom|which|here|the|author
allud|to|our|stori|in|everi|hand|inform|you|and
will|discov|also|the|conqueror|s|adopt|by|the|confessor
harold|s|oath|to|him|and|such|institut|of|his|law
titl|enforc|by|a|case|report|of|one|english|who|de
rive|his|right|from|seisin|befor|the|conquest|recov
by|judgment|of|king|william|i|the|manor|of|sharboni|in
norfolk|against|one|warren|a|norman|to|whom|the|king
had|befor|grant|it|which|had|been|unjust|if|he|had
by|right|of|war|onli|gotten|the|kingdom|for|then|had|all
gul|pictaven|in|hist|cadomen
this|is|the|one|e|uekt|understood|l|y|them|which|say|he|devis
hib|kiaigdoia|to|lyiulain|eleven|auticj|suhod|iu|iceu|camd
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and thirty-three
titl|of|subject|befor|been|utter|extinct|but|admit
this|case|as|you|pleas|or|ani|becaus|of|right|besid|his
sword|it|is|plain|that|his|will|and|imperi|affect
move|by|their|rebellion|which|had|stood|for|the|sworn
harold|dispos|all|thing|as|a|conqueror|upon|observa
tion|of|his|subject|of|all|laud|to|tenur|his|chang|of
law|disinherit|the|english|and|such|other|report
which|could|be|but|where|the|profit|dominion|as
civilian|call|it|was|univers|acquir|into|the|princ|s
hand|and|in|read|the|disgrac|account|then|made|of
the|english|name|it|will|be|manifest
one hundred and twenty|tfjio|hi|a|fatal|dart|in|vast|new|forest|slain
his|death|by|an|infortun|loos|at|a|deer|out|of|one
jfalter|tirrev|hand|in|new|forest|his|brother|pdchard
be|blast|there|with|infect|and|liichard|duke
robert|s|son|have|his|neck|broken|there|in|a|bough|s
twist|catch|him|from|his|hors|have|been|thought|as
divin|reveng|on|william|the|first|who|destroy|in
huiitshir|thirtysix|parish|church|to|make|den|for|wild
beast|although|it|is|probabl|enough|that|it|was|for
secur|of|land|new|forc|there|if|the|wheel|of|fortun
or|chang|of|mar|should|have|dispossess|him|of|the|eng
lish|crown|our|stori|will|of|these|thing|better|instruct
you|but|if|you|seek|matthew|pari|for|it|amend|the|ab
surditi|of|both|the|london|and|tigurin|print|in|an|108g
and|for|bex|magnificus|et|bonc|imldi|adolescon|read|eich
magnificus|c|for|eicluird|brother|to|this|bed|william
one hundred and twenty-eight|was|bg|that|cruel|king|depriv|of|his|sight
thus|did|the|conqueror|s|poster|unquiet|possess
atqui|ad|hanc|rem|eniicleatius|dilucidandani|jure|et|gentium
et|anglioano|viseudi|sunt|llotonian|lllust|h|st|o|allieiic|geu
til|de|jure|belli|three|cap|five|et|cas|calv|in|i|cuke|lib|seven
see|the|seoond|song|matthei|toai|locus|sibi|restitutua
two hundred and thirty-four|polyolbion
their|father|s|inherit|jfiuiam|had|much|to|do|with
his|brother|liohert|just|grudg|at|his|usurp|the
crown|from|right|of|primogenitur|but|so|much|the|less
in|that|liohert|with|diver|other|german|and|french|princ
left|all|privat|respect|for|the|holi|war|which|after|the
cross|undertaken|as|those|time|use|had|most|fortun
success|in|recoveri|of|palestin|robert|had|no|more|but
the|duchi|of|normandij|nor|that|without|sword|often
drawn|befor|his|holi|expedit|about|which|have
first|offer|of|but|refus|the|kingdom|of|jerusalem|after
he|had|some|five|year|been|absent|he|return|into|eng
land|find|his|younger|brother|henri|i|exalt|into
his|hereditari|throne|for|although|it|were|undoubt
agre|that|liohert|was|eldest|son|of|the|conqueror|yet
the|pretenc|which|gave|henri|the|crown|besid|the
mean|of|his|work|favorit|was|that|he|was|the|onli
issu|horn|after|his|fatjir|was|a|king|upon|which|point
a|great|question|is|disput|among|civilian|rohert|was
no|sooner|return|into|normandi|but|present|first|ani
mate|l|y|randal|bishop|of|durham|a|great|disturb|of
the|common|peac|twixt|the|princ|and|subject|by|intol
abl|exact|and|unlimit|injustic|under|jniuam|ii
whose|chief|justicet|it|seem|he|was|newli|escap|out|of
prison|whither|for|those|statemisdemeanor|he|was|com
mit|b|henri|he|despatch|and|interchang|intelli
genc|with|most|of|the|baronag|claim|his|primogeni
tureright|and|therebi|the|kingdom|have|thus|gain
to|him|most|of|the|english|nobil|he|land|with|forc|at
portsmouth|thenc|march|toward|wincliest|but|be
fore|ani|encount|the|two|brother|were|persuad|to|a
solus|omnium|natus|esset|regi|malmsb|for|he|was|born|the
third|year|after|the|conquest|hottom|ilhist|quiust|two
t|placilalor|et|exactor|iotius|rcfjni|flor|wig|et|moiiachorum
turba
tee|seventeenth|song|two hundred and thirty-five
peac|coven|was|made|and|confirm|by|oath|of|twelv
baron|on|both|part|that|henri|should|pay|him|year
two thousand|pound|of|silver|and|that|the|survivor|of|them
should|inherit|the|other|die|without|issu|this|peac
upon|denial|of|payment|which|had|the|better|colour|be
becaus|at|a|request|of|queen|maud|the|duke|prodig
releas|his|two thousand|pound|the|next|year|after|the|coven
was|soon|broken|the|king|to|prevent|what|mischief
might|follow|a|second|arriv|of|his|brother|assist|by
the|greatest|favour|of|normandi|and|avjou|besieg|duke
robert|in|one|of|his|castl|took|him|brought|him|home
cajit|and|at|length|use|that|cours|next|secur|to
death|so|often|read|of|in|choniaf|cantacuzen|and|other
orient|stori|put|out|his|eye|be|all|this|time|i|am
prison|in|cardiff|castl|in|glamorgan|where|he|miser
breath|his|last|it|is|by|pohjdor|ad|out|of|some
author|that|king|henri|after|a|few|year|imprison
releas|him|and|command|that|within|forty|day|and|twelve
hour|these|hour|have|in|them|time|of|two|flood|or|a
flood|and|an|ebb|he|should|abjur|enrjland|and|nor
mandi|pass|the|sea|as|in|perpetu|exil|and|that|in|the
mean|time|upon|new|treason|attempt|by|him|he|was
second|commit|and|endur|his|punish|and|death
as|the|common|monk|relat|i|find|no|warrant|au
thoriti|that|make|me|believ|it|yet|becaus|it|give
some|kind|of|exampl|of|our|obsolet|law|of|abjur
which|it|seem|had|it|begin|from|one|of|the|statut
publish|under|the|name|of|the|confessor|a|word|or|two
of|the|time|prescrib|here|for|his|passag|which|be
examin|upon|bracion|s|credit|make|the|report|therein
faulti|for|he|seem|confid|that|the|forty|day|in|abju
ration|were|afterward|induc|upon|the|statut|of|clarin
don|vflnch|gave|the|accus|of|feloni|or|treason|although
jlen|two|ap|rog|hove|fol|three hundred and fourteen
two hundred and thirty-six|polyolbion
acquit|by|the|ordel|that|is|judgment|by|water|or|fire
but|the|statut|pubush|speak|onli|of|water|be|the
common|trial|of|meaner|person|forty|day|to|pass|out|of
the|eealm|with|his|substanc|which|to|other|felon|take
sanctuari|and|confess|to|the|coron|he|affirm|not
grantabl|although|john|le|breton|is|against|him|give
this|liberti|of|time|account|after|the|abjur|to|be
spent|in|the|sanctuari|for|provis|of|their|voyag|nece
sari|after|which|complet|no|man|on|jmw|of|life|and
member|is|to|suppli|ani|of|their|want|i|know|it|is|a
point|veri|intric|to|determin|observ|these|opposit
author|and|no|express|resolut|sinc|them|the|oath
of|abjur|publish|among|our|manual|statut|near
agre|with|this|of|duke|jtohert|but|with|neither|of|those
old|lawyer|in|it|after|the|felon|confess|and|abjur
and|hath|his|port|appoint|ivil|proceed|the|oath
dilig|eiideavour|to|jxiss|over|at|that|port|and|loill|not|delay
time|there|abov|a|flood|and|an|ebb|if|i|may|have|passag|in
tliat|space|if|not|i|will|everi|day|go|into|the|sea|up|to|the
hiee|assay|to|go|over|and|unless|i|may|do|this|icithin|forti
continu|day|i|will|return|to|the|sanclicanj|as|a|felon|of|our
lord|the|king|so|god|me|help|dx|so|here|the|forti|day
are|to|be|spent|about|the|passag|and|not|in|the|sanctuari
compar|this|with|other|author|and|you|shall|find|all
so|disson|that|reconcili|is|imposs|resolut
veri|difficult|i|onli|offer|to|their|consider|which|can
here|judg|whi|hubert|de|jhirch|earl|of|kent|and|chief
justic|of|england|under|hen|iii|have|incur|the
king|s|high|displeasur|and|grievous|persecut|by|great
enemi|take|sanctuari|was|after|his|be|violent
glanvil|lib|fourteen|cap|l|cteterura|si|placet|adea|janum|nostrum
li|two|i7
two|itiii|north|three|ed|three|coron|three hundred and thirteen|lectur|ap|br|tit|coron|one hundred and eighty-one
vid|staiiifordum|lib|two|cap|forty|qui|de|hia|gravittr|et|modesti|sed
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and thirty-seven
drawn|out|restor|yet|that|the|sheriff|of|hereford|and
essex|were|command|to|ward|him|there|and|prevent|all
susten|to|be|brought|him|which|they|did|decementc
ibi|quadraglnta|dierum|cxcubii|ohservar|and|whether|also
the|same|reason|now|unknown|to|us|bred|this|forti|day
for|expect|of|embarqu|out|of|the|kingdom|avhich
gave|it|in|anoth|kind|for|retorn|as|in|case|of|stsseisttt
the|law|hath|been|that|the|disseisor|could|not|reenter
without|action|unless|he|had|as|it|were|made|a|present|and
continu|claim|yet|if|he|had|been|out|of|the|kingdom|in
singl|pilgrimag|that|is|not|in|general|voyag|to|the
holyland|or|in|the|king|s|servic|in|franc|or|so|he|had
allow|of|forti|day|two|flood|and|one|ebb|to|come
home|in|and|fifteen|day|and|four|day|after|his|return
and|if|the|tenant|had|been|so|beyond|sea|he|might|have
been|essoin|de|ultra|rtiar|and|for|a|year|and|a|day|after
which|he|had|forti|day|one|flood|and|one|el|b|which|is
easili|understood|as|the|other|for|two|flood|to|come|into
england|this|is|certain|that|the|space|of|forti|day|as|a
year|and|a|day|hath|had|with|us|diver|applic|as|in
what|befor|the|assis|of|fresltforc|in|citi|and|borough
and|the|widow|s|quarentin|which|seem|to|have|had|be
gin|either|of|a|delib|time|grant|to|her|to
think|of|her|conveni|in|take|letter|of|administr
as|in|anoth|countri|the|reason|of|the|like|is|given|or
els|from|the|forti|day|in|the|essoin|of|childbirth|allow
by|the|nrrman|custom|but|you|mislik|the|digress
it|is|report|that|when|wiluam|the|conqueror|in|his|death
bed|left|normandi|to|eohert|and|emjland|to|ifluhirn|the
eed|this|henri|ask|him|what|he|would|give|him|five
ie|hertford|ed
one|imat|par|pag|five hundred and seven
two|bract|lib|four|tract|assi|novemb|diss|cap|five|et|lib|five|tract|de
esson|cap|three|vid|de|consuetudin|in|oxouia|twenty-one|d|three|fol|four|five|six
cust|geueraulx|de|artoi|art|1g4
two hundred and thirty-eight|polyolbion
tjwiisand|ponnd|of|silver|sait|he|and|he|content|my|son
for|in|time|thou|shalt|have|all|which|i|possess|and|he|greater
than|either|of|thi|hrefhren
one hundred and sixty-four|his|sacrilegi|hand|upon|tjie|church|laid
the|great|controversi|about|elect|the|archbishop|of
canterburi|the|king|as|his|right|bad|him|command
that|john|bishop|of|norwich|should|have|the|prelaci|the
pope|be|innoc|iii|for|his|own|gain|aid|with|some
disloy|monk|of|canterburi|desir|and|at|last|cons
crate|stephen|of|langton|a|cardin|was|first|becaus|of|it
for|king|john|would|by|no|mean|endur|this|stephen|nor
permit|him|the|digniti|after|his|unjust|elect|at|born
but|banish|the|monk|and|stout|menac|the|pope
he|present|make|deleg|to|jfilliam|bishop|of|london
eustac|of|eli|and|malger|of|worcest|that|they|should
with|monitori|advic|offer|persuas|to|the|king|of|con
formiti|to|the|ilomish|behest|if|he|persist|in|constanc
they|should|denounc|england|under|an|interdict|the
bishop|tell|king|john|as|much|who|sudden|move|with
imperi|affect|and|scorn|of|papal|usurp|swear
by|god|s|tooth|if|they|or|ani|otiier|with|imadvis|attempt|sub
ject|his|kingdom|to|an|interdict|he|tcould|present|drive|everi
pelat|and|priest|of|england|to|the|pope|and|confisc|all
their|substanc|and|of|all|the|roman|amongst|them|he|ivould
first|pull|out|their|eye|and|cut|off|their|nose|and|tlien|send
them|all|pack|with|other|like|threaten|term|which
notwithstand|were|not|abl|to|becaus|them|desist|but
within|littl|time|follow|in|public|denunci|they
jierform|their|author|and|the|king|in|some|sort|his
threaten|commit|all|abbey|and|priori|to|lay
men|s|custodi|and|compel|everi|priest|s|concubin|to
a|grievous|fine|thus|for|a|while|continu|the|liealm
nine|joann|keg
the|seveyteexth|sokg|two hundred and thirty-nine
without|divin|sacrament|or|exercis|except|onli|con
fession|extrem|unction|and|baptism|the|king|be
also|excommun|and|burial|allow|onli|in|highway
and|ditch|without|ecclesiast|ceremoni|and|but|onli
by|indulg|procur|by|archbishop|langton|which|pur
chase|favour|that|in|all|the|monasteri|except|of
jfhitefriar|might|be|c|inn|3er|ice|onc|a|week|had|no
chang|for|some|four|or|five|year|when|the|pope|in|a
solemn|council|of|cardin|accord|to|his|pretend
plenari|power|depos|king|john|and|immedi|by|his
legat|pandulph|offer|to|philip|eleven|of|franc|the|kingdom
of|england|this|with|suspicion|of|the|subject|heart|at
home|and|anoth|becaus|then|more|esteem|than|either|of
these|that|is|the|propheci|of|one|peter|an|hermit|in|yorl
shire|foretel|to|his|face|thai|hef|ore|holythursday|folloic
he|should|he|no|king|alter|his|stiff|and|resolut|but|too
disturb|affect|and|persuad|him|by|oath|of|himself
and|sixteen|more|of|his|barous|to|make|submiss|to|the
church|of|piom|and|condescend|to|give|for|satisfact
eight thousand|pound|sterl|that|name|of|sterl|began|as|i
am|instruct|in|time|of|hen|ii|and|had|it|origin|of
name|from|some|esterung|make|that|kind|of|money
which|hath|it|essenc|in|particular|weight|and|fine
not|of|the|starl|bird|as|some|nor|of|sterl|in|scotland
under|ed|i|as|other|absurd|for|in|record|much|more
ancient|the|express|name|sferlingorum|i|have|read|to|the
clergi|and|subject|all|his|dominion|to|the|pope|and|so
had|absolut|and|after|more|than|four|year|releas|of
the|interdict|i|was|the|willing|to|insert|it|all|becaus
you|might|see|what|injuri|opposit|by|papal|usurpa
tion|he|endur|and|then|conjectur|that|his|violent
jo|stow|in|notit|londin|pag|fifty-two|vid|camd|in|scot|buchan
olio|polydor|hist|ten
norff|six|eich|i|liu|eot|thirteen|et|alibi|in|eisdem|architi|vid
two hundred and forty|polvolbiox
deal|against|the|church|were|not|without|intoler
provoc|which|mad|rather|than|amend|his
troubl|sjnrit|easili|you|shall|not|find|a|princ|more
benefici|to|the|holi|becaus|than|he|if|you|take|his|former
part|of|reign|befor|this|ambiti|stephen|of|langton|s|elec
tion|exasper|desir|of|reveng|most|kind|habitud
then|was|twixt|him|and|the|pope|and|for|alm|toward
j|erusahm|s|aid|he|gave|the|fortieth|part|of|his|revenu|and
caus|his|baronag|to|second|his|exampl|although
therefor|he|was|no|waj|excus|of|mani|of|those|fault
both|in|govern|and|religion|which|are|laid|on|him|yet
it|much|extenu|the|i|will|of|his|action|that|he|was|so|be
sieg|with|continu|and|undigest|incent|of|the
clergi|with|traitor|confid|strike|at|his|crown|and
in|such|sort|as|human|must|have|exceed|itself|to|have
endur|it|with|ani|mixtur|of|patienc|nor|ever|shall|i
imput|that|his|wick|attempt|of|send|ambassador
thoma|ilardington|ralph|fitnichola|and|robert|of|lori
don|to|amiramid|king|of|morocco|for|the|mahometan
religion|so|much|to|his|own|will|and|natur|as|to|the|per
secut|bull|interdict|excommun|depos
and|such|like|publish|and|act|by|them|avhich|counter
f|ute|the|vain|name|of|pastor|shear|and|not|feed
their|sheep|made|this|poor|king|for|they|brought|him|so
poor|that|he|was|call|johann|sine|terra|even|as|a
phrenet|commit|what|poster|receiv|now|among|the
worst|action|and|in|themselv|they|arc|so|of|princ
icr|his|baronag|loer|forc|d|defens|arm|to|rais
no|sooner|had|pandulp|h|transact|with|the|king|and
stqjhen|of|lanyton|was|quiet|possess|of|his|archbishop
ric|but|he|present|in|a|council|of|both|order|at|paul|s
ant|alio|de|hii|consulcnclus|sit|matth|pari
john|jjudland
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and forty-one
stir|up|the|heart|of|the|baron|against|om|by|produc
the|old|charter|of|liberti|grant|by|ilea|i|comprehend
ing|an|instaur|of|s|edwanv|law|as|they|were
amend|by|the|conqueror|and|provok|them|to|chal
leng|observ|thereof|as|an|absolut|duti|to|subject|of
free|state|he|was|easili|heard|and|his|thought|second
with|rebelli|design|and|after|denial|of|this|purpos
request|armi|were|muster|to|extort|these|liberti
but|at|length|by|treati|in|baningmed|near|stane|he|gave
them|two|charter|the|one|of|liberti|general|the|other
of|the|forest|both|which|were|not|veri|differ|from|our
graund|charter|and|that|of|the|forest|the|pope|at|his
request|confirm|all|but|the|same|year|discontent
through|too|much|favour|and|respect|given|by|the|king|to
diver|stranger|whom|sinc|the|composit|with|the|le
gate|he|had|too|frequent|and|in|too|high|esteem|enter
tain|renew|among|the|baron|ambassador|were|sent
to|advertis|the|pope|what|injuri|the|see|of|born|had|by
this|late|exact|of|such|liberti|out|of|a|kingdom|in
which|it|had|such|great|interest|for|king|john|had|been
veri|prodig|to|it|of|his|best|and|most|majest|titl
and|with|what|commot|the|baron|had|rebel|against
him|soon|obtain|a|bull|curs|in|thunder|all|such|as
stood|for|ani|longer|mainten|of|those|grant|charter
this|as|how|could|it|be|otherwis|bred|new|but|almost
incur|broil|in|the|state|twixt|king|and|subject|but
in|whom|more|than|in|the|pope|and|his|archbishop|was
becaus|of|this|dissens|one|both|as|wick|boutefeus|appli
ing|themselv|to|both|part|sometim|anim|the|sub
ject|by|censori|exauthor|the|princ|then|assist
and|move|forward|his|prone|to|faitliless|abrog
by|pretenc|of|au|interced|univers|author
sixteen|job|reg
king|john|s|grand|charter
vol|ii|sixteen
two hundred and forty-two|polyolbion
one hundred and seventy-five|the|general|charter|seiz|d
the|last|note|somewhat|instruct|you|in|what|you|are|to
rememb|that|is|the|grand|charter|grant|and|as|matter
of|fact|was|repeal|by|king|john|his|son|henri|iii|of
some|nine|year|age|under|protect|first|of|jviuiam|mare
shom|earl|of|penhrok|after|the|earl|s|death|peter|de|roch
bishop|of|winchest|in|the|ninth|year|of|his|reign|in|a
parliament|held|at|westminst|desir|of|the|baronag|by
mouth|of|hubert|de|burch|propos|it|a|fifteen|whereto
upon|deliber|they|gave|answer|qiibd|pegl|i|etitionihu
gratanttr|adquiescer|si|uli|dih|petita|libert|conceder|vo
luisset|the|king|agre|to|the|condit|and|present
under|the|great|seal|deliv|charter|of|them|into|everi
counti|of|england|speak|as|those|of|king|john|saith
pari|ita|quod|chartc|utrorumqu|begum|in|nullo|inveniuntur
dissiniilesf|yet|those|which|we|have|publish|want|of
that|which|is|in|king|john|s|wherein|you|have|a|special
chapter|that|if|a|jew|s|debtor|die|and|leav|his|heir|within
age|subject|to|payment|the|usuri|dure|the|nonag|should
ceas|which|explain|the|mean|of|the|statut|of|merton
chap|v|otherwis|but|i|will|interpret|in|some|of|our
year|book|after|this|follow|further|that|no|aid|ex
cept|to|redeem|the|king|s|person|out|of|cajjtirifg|exampl
of|that|was|in|illchard|i|whose|ransom|out|of|the|hand
of|leopold|duke|of|austria|was|near|one hundred thousand|pound|of
silver|collect|from|the|subject|make|his|eldest|son|knight
or|marri|his|eldest|daughter|should|be|levi|of|the|subject
but|by|parliament|yet|reason|whi|these|are|omit|in
henri|the|third|s|charter|it|seem|easili|may|be|given
one|one hundred and twenty-two
ihat|they|would|will|grant|his|request|if|he|would|vouch
aaf|them|th|jse|liberti|so|long|desir
t|so|that|the|charter|of|both|king|are|just|alik
thirty-five|llni|g|fol|one|et3|eliz|ilowd|one|fol|two hundred and thirty|atqui|vid|bract
lib|two|cap|twenty-six|two
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and forty-three
see|ten|year|befor|time|of|edivard|longshanlv|exempli
ficat|which|is|tliat|whereon|we|now|reli|and|onli|have
all|jew|were|banish|the|kingdom|and|among|the|peti
tion|and|grievanc|of|the|common|at|time|of|his|iu
staurat|of|this|charter|to|them|one|was|thus|consent
to|nullum|tauagium|vel|auxilvmn|per|nos|veljierech|nostra
de|ccetero|in|regno|nostra|imj|onatur|sen|levetur|sine|vahmtat|et
consensu|comnmnl|archiejnscoporum|episcoporum|abbatum|et
aliorum|prcclaforum|comitum|baronum|milifnm|burgensmm
et|aliorum|llberarum|homiuum|which|although|compar
with|that|of|aid|by|tenur|be|no|law|yet|i|conjectur
that|upon|this|articl|was|that|chapter|of|aid|omit
but|i|return|to|henri|he|within|some|three|year|sum
mon|a|parliament|to|oxford|and|declar|his|full|age|re
fuse|ani|longer|peter|de|poch|s|protect|but|take
all|upon|his|person|govern|by|pretenc|of|past|non
age|caus|all|the|charter|of|the|forest|to|be|cancel
and|repeal|the|rest|for|so|i|take|it|although|my|author
speak|chiefli|of|that|of|the|forest|and|made|the|subject
with|price|of|great|sum|rate|by|his|chief|justic|hugh|de
burch|renew|their|liberti|affirm|that|his|grant|of|them
was|in|his|minor|and|therefor|so|defeas|which
with|it|like|in|disinherit|and|seis|on|his|subject
possess|without|judici|cours|begin|with|those
two|great|potent|richard|earl|of|corniml|his|brother
and|inuiam|le|mdrshall|earl|of|pcinhroojc|bred|most|in
testin|troubl|tvixt|him|and|his|baron|although|some
time|discontinu|yet|not|extinguish|even|till|his|de
cline|day|of|enthron|felic|observ|among|this
that|where|our|historian|and|chronolog|talk|of|a|desir
by|the|baronag|to|have|the|constitut|of|oxford|re
store|you|must|understand|those|charter|cancel|at|ox
no|tallag|or|aid|without|consent|of|parliament|should|after|be
exact|thorn|de|walsinghaui|in|2g|ed|one|iolyd|hist|seventeen
one hundred and sixty-two
two hundred and forty-four|polyolbion
ford|where|after|mani|rebellion|but|provok|opposit
the|king|at|last|by|oath|of|himself|and|his|son|edward|in
full|parliament|have|nevertheless|ofttim|befor|made
show|of|as|much|grant|again|their|desir|freedom
which|in|his|spacious|reign|was|not|so|innch|impeach|by
himself|as|through|i|will|counsel|of|alien|caterpillar|crawl
about|him|be|as|scourg|then|sent|over|into|this|king
dom|but|liohert|of|glocest|shall|summarili|tell|you|this
and|give|your|palat|varieti
eht|mrstr|too|that|here|bcl|hi|ltng|henri|uag
in|this|lonu|tchollt|tiiginnc|to|tell|md|hh|man
c|atjiic|thrc|jorcthrrn|that|is|iixourc|son|bocrt
slulj|the|ia|of|almaiu|the|bcrtlic|that|to|heir|them|here
sic|sir|william|de|valenc|tint|sir|eimer|thereto
lit|of|wincetr|anti|sir|guy|de|lisewi|also
jthoru|horn|anu|thoru|the|vuen|toa|so|much|frenss
folc|throttght
sthat|of|english|men|me|toltr|as|right|nought
sntj|the|ile|horn|let|her|uiill|that|each|usa|as|sing
hntj|nome|our|men|gou|anij|ne|jjaieuc|noth
tlto|eni|of|this|brethren|nuf|thcr|jilciniu|enn|boigfit
i|ii|scije|j|uf|boc|tioth|on|torong|h|o|ssall|ou|fco|right
2ls|boo|seith|ujc|beth|ixe|br|bjill|h|e|mohi|xio
suij|mann|engliss|ala|hullj|miu|hom|also
o|that|thoroxi|botit|qrace|the|carl|at|last
slntj|the|bisho|s|of|the|lonti|anlj|isaron|besjjeah|bast
chat|the|hin|englissemen|of|sonti|hii|bioluc|out|cast
hnu|that|long|brin|j|njtoun|jjuf|her|oer|last
cherof|hii|nome|confcst|anjj|to|the|i|hii|senlr
one|forty-two|three
i|iii|of|juxiipiav|iuiam|of|valenc|and|athelwar|his|half
ijrotlieih|kuii|of|innlicl|jiiiy|john|s|dowag|daul|liter|to|alviar
karl|of|jlikjoiisriw|niairiod|to|lliujli|jlrownc|earl|of|murchiw|poiter
liichnril|marl|of|connail|son|to|king|john|afhelmarus
eliuuvr|daughter|to|liainund|earl|of|provenc|they|took
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and forty-five
co|abfcc|ite|of|his|lonu|anlj|suich|mannrr|nmrnc
zero|thfr|at|lastc|hit|brought|him|thrrto
co|make|a|3tiniciancc|amcntjmcnt|to|tjo
9lnl3f|mali|it|uia|at|oxenford|that|lonu|bor|to|sctc
2cuelf|huntirctr|as|m|ntx|oc|iacc|anu|fiftn|au|ocht
iight|afaout|iiiissom|fouvtcn|night|it|lastc
che|dlbrlfs|autj|thr|baron|lucr|h|cu|stutjc|bast
hor|to|amculji|that|lontr|as|the|gbrlc|of|gloucetr
ir|richard|anti|sir|simond|rle|of|leicetr
qnl|t|sir|lohn|le|fizgeffri|anlj|other|j3aroit|inobi
zero|that|at|last|tije|e|therto|hii|tjfroto
co|remiu|the|frenss|tncn|to|lifab|hcwontj|sc
3i|tior|lonjj|her|anu|thcr|antj|nc|come|noght|age
entj|to|granti|god|law|antr|the|old|charter|also
chat|so|oftc|h3as|igrantclj|cr|nxcti|so|oft|bnljo
iereof|baa|the|chartr|imati|anu|asclcu|bast|there
f|the|bing|anti|of|otljer|tx|t|men|that|ti|ere|hjctc
cho|nome|tentjc|tajier|the|i|tshoj|s|m|hor|honti
flnh|the|it|himself|ant|other|hejj|men|of|the|lont
che|isho|s|amaitseti|all|that|there|agon|baerc
sintj|eucr|ett|bnutik|the|labac|that|loheu|bjcre|there
ittitj|berning|tajjer|ank|snch|as|lastc
che|3ing|ant|other|seiue|men|anu|the|caper|atjouii
cast
if|particular|of|the|stori|with|preced|and|cons
quent|be|desir|abov|all|i|send|you|to|matthew|fart
and|ivuliam|itishang|and|end|in|ad|that|these|so|con
trovert|charter|had|not|their|settl|sureti|until|ed|i
sinc|whom|they|have|been|more|than|thirti|time|in|par
liament|confirm
one hundred and eighty-eight|the|seat|on|which|her|king|inaugur|tuer
which|is|the|chair|and|stone|at|jvestminst|whereon
one|have|two|steilfast|youq|four|again|good
kindl|taper|curs
two hundred and forty-six|polyolbion
our|sovereign|are|inaugur|the|scoftisji|stori|on
whose|credit|in|the|first|part|hereof|i|importun|you|not
to|reli|affirm|that|the|stone|was|first|in|gallicia|of|spain
at|brigantia|whether|that|be|compostella|as|franci|tarapha
will|or|coronna|as|florian|del|campo|conjectur|or|betan
so|is|accord|to|mariana|i|can|not|determin|where|gathel
king|of|scot|there|sat|on|it|as|his|throne|thenc|was|it
brought|into|ireland|by|simon|brech|first|king|of|scot
transplant|into|that|isl|about|seven hundred|year|befor|christ
out|of|ireland|king|ferguz|in|him|by|some|is|the|begin
ning|of|the|now|continu|scottish|reign|about|three hundred and seventy|year
afterward|brought|it|into|scotland|king|kenneth|some|eight hundred and fifty
of|the|incarn|place|it|at|the|abbey|of|scone|in|the
shrifdom|of|ferth|where|the|coron|of|his|successor
was|usual|as|of|our|monarch|now|at|jfestminst|and|in
the|samn|time|at|kingstonvpontham|this|kenneth
some|say|first|caus|that|distich|to|be|iugraven|on|it
ni|fcdiat|fatum|scoti|quocdnqu|locatum
inveni|lapidem|fegnar|tenentur|ibidem
whereupon|it|is|call|fatal|marmor|in|hector|boetius
and|inclos|it|in|a|wooden|chair|it|is|now|at|ifcstminst
and|on|it|are|the|coron|of|our|sovereign|thither
first|brought|as|the|author|here|speak|among|infinit
other|sjwil|by|edward|longshank|after|his|war|and|vic
tori|against|king|john|balliol
two hundred and seven|their|tcomen|to|inherit
so|they|common|affirm|but|that|denial|of|sovereignti
to|their|women|cost|the|life|of|mani|thousand|of|their
men|both|under|this|victori|edward|and|his|son|the
black|princ|and|other|of|his|successor|his|case|stood
hector|booth|hist|one|ten|et|fourteen|buchanan|rer|scotic|6et8
the|fatal|marbl|one thousand, two hundred and ninety-seven|twenty-four|ed|i|saliqu|law
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and forty-seven
briefli|tlius|philip|iv|surnam|the|fair|had|issu|three
son|lew|the|contenti|philip|the|long|and|charl
the|irtar|all|these|success|reign|after|him|and|die
without|issu|inherit|he|had|likewis|a|daughter|isa
hell|i|purpos|omit|the|other|be|out|of|the|present
matter|marri|to|edward|ii|and|so|was|mother|to|fd
ward|iii|the|issu|male|of|philip|the|fair|thus|fail
philip|son|and|heir|of|charl|earl|of|valoi|p|eamnont
alenson|c|which|was|brother|to|philip|the|fair|chal
leng|the|crown|of|franc|as|next|heir|male|against|this
edvjard|who|answer|to|the|object|of|the|saliqu|law
that|admit|it|as|their|assert|was|yet|he|ava|heir
male|although|descend|of|a|daughter|and|in|a|public
assembl|of|the|estat|first|about|the|protectorship|of|the
womb|for|queen|jane|dowag|of|the|fair|charl|was
left|with|child|but|afterward|deliv|of|a|daughter
blanch|afterward|duchess|of|orlean|was|this|had|in
solemn|disput|by|lawyer|on|both|side|and|appli
at|length|also|to|the|direct|point|of|inherit|the|crown
what|follow|upon|judgment|given|against|his|right|the
valiant|and|famous|deed|of|him|and|his|english|record
in|walsingham|froissart|yemilius|and|the|multitud|of
later|collect|stori|make|manifest|but|for|the|law
itself|everi|mouth|speak|of|it|few|i|think|understand|at
all|whi|they|name|it|the|opinion|are|that|it|be|part
of|the|ancient|law|made|among|the|salian|the|same|vnth
frank|under|king|pharamond|about|one thousand, two hundred|year|sinc|hath
thenc|denomin|and|goropius|that|fetch|all|out|of
dutch|and|more|toler|perhap|this|than|mani|other|of
his|etymolog|deriv|the|s|dian|name|from|s|il|which
in|contract|he|make|frora|aticlt|inventor|whereof
the|frank|saith|he|were|interpret|them|as|it|were
horsemen|a|name|fit|appli|to|the|warlilv|and|most
hutin|francic|lib|two|as|our|word|saddl
two hundred and forty-eight|polyolbion
nobl|of|ani|nation|as|chival|in|french|and|equif|in
ldin|allow|likewis|so|that|upon|collect|the|sajiqu
law|by|him|is|as|much|as|a|chivalr|laiv|and|saliqu|land
quce|ad|equestri|ordini|dignitatem|et|in|capit|summo|et|in
c|bferi|membri|conservandam|jyertinehat|r|which|veri|well
agre|with|a|sentenc|given|in|the|parliament|at|burdeux
upon|an|ancient|testament|devis|all|the|testat|s
saliqu|land|which|was|in|point|of|judgment|interpret
fief|and|who|know|not|that|fief|were|origin
militari|gift|but|then|if|so|how|come|saliqu|to|extend
to|the|crown|which|is|mere|without|tenur|one|therefor
ego|scio|saith|a|later|lawyer|legem|salicam|ager|de|imvato
patrimonio|tanthm|it|was|compos|not|this|alon|but
with|other|as|they|say|by|irisogast|bodogast|salogast|and
windogast|wise|counsel|about|that|fharamund|s|reign
the|text|of|it|in|this|part|is|offer|us|by|claud|de|seissel
bishop|of|marsill|bodin|and|diver|other|of|the|french
as|it|were|as|ancient|as|the|origin|of|the|name|and|in|these
word|de|terra|salicd|nulla|porllo|hcereditatl|mulieri|veniat
s|l|ad|virilem|sexum|iota|terrc|hwredita|pervenlat|and|in
substanc|as|refer|to|the|person|of|the|king|s|heir
femal|so|much|is|rememb|by|that|great|civilian
baldus|and|diver|other|but|rather|as|custom|than|ani
particular|law|as|one|of|that|kingdom|also|hath|expressli
and|newli|written|ce|nest|jjoiid|uiie|loij|ecritt|mai|nee|avec
knight
vhich|belong|to|the|preserv|of|chivalr|state|in|the
possessor
bodin|de|rcpub|g|cap|five|vid|earth|chassan|con|burgund
rubric|eight|g|five|num|seventy|as|it|wore
knight|fee|or|land|lield
iaul|imerul|cosmog|part|two|lib|three|cap|seventeen
i|know|that|the|saliqnc|law|intend|oidi|privat|possess
no|part|of|the|saliqu|laud|can|descend|to|the|daughter|but|all
to|the|male|ad|one|w|de|seuatorib
hicinni|bignon|do|llvxcel|des|lioi|livr|three|this|is|no
law|written|but|learn|of|matur
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and forty-nine
nous|que|nous|navon|point|invente|mai|vavon|pidss|de|la
natur|meme|qui|le|nous|a|ainsi|api|et|donn|cet|instinct
but|whi|the|same|author|dare|affirm|that|king|edward
yield|upon|this|point|to|the|french|philip|de|valoi|i
wonder|see|all|stori|and|carriag|of|state|in|those|time
is|so|manifest|opposit|becami|undertak|a|conjectur
of|the|first|becaus|which|exclud|gyncecocrucij|among|them
guess|it|to|be|upon|their|observ|of|the|misfortun
in|war|which|their|neighbour|the|bructeran|a|peopl
about|the|now|over|issel|in|the|netherland|from|near|whom
he|as|mani|other|first|deriv|the|frank|endur|in|time|of
vespasian|under|conduct|and|empir|of|one|velleda|a|ladi
even|of|diin|esteem|amongst|them|but|howsoev|the
law|be|in|truth|or|iuterpret|for|it|might|i|will|beseem|me
to|offer|determin|in|matter|of|this|kind|it|is|certain
that|to|this|day|they|have|an|use|of|ancient|time|which
commit|to|the|care|of|some|of|the|greatest|peer|that|they
when|the|queen|is|in|childbirth|be|present|and|warili
observ|lest|the|ladi|privili|should|counterfeit|the|inh
ritabl|sex|by|suppos|some|other|made|when|the|true
birth|is|femal|or|by|ani|such|mean|wrong|their|ancient
custom|eoyal|as|of|the|birth|of|this|present|lew|the
xiii|on|the|last|of|septemb|in|one thousand, six hundred and one|is|after|other|such
rememb
two hundred and eight|of|these|two|faction|styvd|of|york|and|lancast
briefli|their|begin|was|thus|edward|the|iii|had
seven|son|edward|the|black|princ|william|of|hatfield
lionel|duke|of|clarenc|john|of|gaunt|duke|of|lancast
edmund|of|langley|duke|of|york|thoma|of|jvoodstock|and
williani|of|iviadsor|in|prerog|of|birth|as|i|name|them
the|black|princ|die|in|life|of|his|father|leav|bichard
vicl|tacit|histor|four|rodulph|boter|commcntar|eight
three|ex|aichiv|pari|one|ed|four|in|lucciu|eilit|nine|ed|four|fol|nine
two hundred and fifty|polyolbiok
of|bnrdeux|afterward|tlie|ii|iflluam|of|raffield|die
without|issu|henri|duke|of|lancast|son|to|john|of
gaunt|the|fourth|brother|depos|ricluml|the|ii|and|to
the|fifth|and|sixth|of|his|name|left|the|kingdom|descend
in|right|line|of|the|famili|of|lancast|on|the|other|side
lionel|duke|of|clarenc|the|third|brother|had|onli|issu
philippa|a|daughter|marri|to|edmuml|mortim|earl|of
march|who|upon|this|titl|was|design|heir|appar|to
puch|ii|edmimd|by|her|had|roger|to|pioger|was|issu
two|son|and|two|daughter|but|all|die|without|post
riti|except|ann|through|her|marri|to|richard|earl
of|cambridg|son|to|edmund|of|langley|was|convey|to
their|issu|richard|duke|of|york|father|to|king|edirard
iv|that|right|which|lionel|whose|heir|she|was|had|befor
the|rest|of|that|eoyal|stem|so|that|lancast|deriv
itself|from|the|fourth|brother|york|frona|the|blood|of|the
third|and|fifth|unit|and|in|time|of|the|sixth|henri|was
this|fatal|and|endur|miseri|over|england|about|deter
minat|of|these|titl|first|conceiv|in|thirtieth|of|his
reign|by|richard|duke|of|york|whose|son|edward|iv|de
pose|henri|some|nine|year|after|and|have|reign|near
like|space|was|also|by|readopt|of|henri|depriv|for|a
time|but|restor|and|die|of|it|possess|in|whose|famili
it|continu|until|after|death|of|richard|iii|hairi|earl|of
richmond|and|heir|of|lancast|marrpng|elizabeth|the|heir
of|york|made|that|happi|union|some|have|refer|the
utmost|root|of|the|lancastrian|titl|to|edmund|inde
eldest|son|to|henri|hi|but|that|by|reason|of|his|unfit|de
formiti|his|younger|brother|edivard|had|the|success
which|is|absurd|and|fals|for|one|whom|i|believ|befor
most|of|our|monk|and|the|king|s|chronolog|of|those
time|jiattheic|pari|tell|expressli|the|day|and|year|of
both|their|birth|and|make|edward|abov|four|year|elder
j|ap|polydor|hist|sixteen
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and fifty-one
than|crookhack|all|these|had|that|most|honour|sur
name|plantagencsfl|which|hath|been|extinct|among|us|ever
sinc|margaret|countess|of|salishur|daughter|to|georg
plantagcnet|duke|of|clarenc|was|behead|in|the|tower
by|reason|of|john|of|gaunv|devic|be|a|eed|rose|and
dmimd|of|laiigki|s|a|white|rose|these|two|faction|after
ward|as|for|cognis|of|their|descent|and|inclin
were|by|the|same|flower|distinguish
2s0|yet|jealous|of|his|right|descend|to|his|grave
so|jealous|that|toward|them|of|the|lancastrian|faction
nought|but|death|as|there|reason|of|state|was|enough
was|his|kind|toward|stranger|whose|slip|word
wqfe|in|wrest|sens|seem|interpret|to|his|hurt
how|he|carri|himself|the|relat|of|sir|john|markharn
his|chief|justic|thoma|burdd|an|esquir|of|jfarivtckshtr
and|some|citizen|for|idl|speech|are|testimoni|how
to|his|own|blood|in|that|miser|end|of|his|brother|georg
duke|of|clarenc|is|show|whose|death|hath|diver|re
port|caus|as|our|late|chronicl|tell|you|one|is|sup
pose|upon|a|propheci|for|speak|that|edward|s|succ
sor|s|name|should|begin|with|g|which|made|him|suspect
this|georg|a|kind|of|superstit|not|exampl|as|i|now
rememb|among|our|princ|but|in|proport|veri|fre
quent|in|the|orient|empir|as|passag|of|the|name|in
alexius|manuel|and|other|discov|in|alceta|choniaf
and|mani|more|serious|yet|insuffici|fault|tast|of
richard|duke|of|glocest|s|practic|are|laid|to|his|charg
let|pohjdor|hall|and|the|rest|disclos|them|but|of|his
death|i|can|not|omit|what|i|have|newli|seen|you|knoav
it|is|common|affirm|that|he|was|drown|in|a|hog
see|to|the|end|of|the|fourth|song
one|name|of|planttujcneni|thirty-three|ioi|eight|j|stow|pag|seven hundred and seventeen
white|and|red|hose|for|york|and|lancamcr|lamd|remain
pag|one hundred and one|a|of|ulorij|duke|of|clartncc
two hundred and fifty-two|polyolbion
head|of|malmsey|at|the|tower|one|that|veri|late
would|need|dissuad|men|from|drink|health|to|their
princ|friend|and|mistress|as|the|fashion|is|a|bach
lor|of|divin|and|professor|of|stori|and|greek|at|cologn
in|his|divis|of|drunken|natur|make|one|part|of|them
qui|in|halcena|mutari|cuper|dummodo|mare|in|generosissi
mum|vinum|transformaretur|and|for|want|of|anoth|ex
ampl|dare|deliv|that|such|a|one|iva|georg|earl|of
clarenc|icho|ichen|for|suspicion|of|treason|he|was|judg|to
dk|by|his|brother|edward|iv|and|had|elect|ofhisfwm|of
death|given|mm|made|choic|to|be|drown|in|malmsey|first
whi|he|call|him|earl|of|clarenc|i|believ|not|all|his|pro
fess|histori|can|justifi|neither|inde|was|ever|among
us|ani|such|honour|earl|of|clare|long|sinc|were|lut
the|titl|of|clarenc|began|when|that|earldom|was|convert
into|a|dukedom|by|creation|of|lionel|who|marri|with
the|heir|of|the|clare|duke|of|clarenc|third|son|to|edward
iii|sinc|whom|never|have|been|other|than|duke|of|that
digniti|but|unto|what|i|should|imput|this|unexcus
injuri|to|the|dead|princ|unless|to|icarius|shadow|dazzl
the|writer|s|eye|or|bacchus|his|reveng|caus|him|to
slip|in|matter|of|his|own|profess|i|know|not|our
stori|make|the|death|littl|better|than|a|tyrann
murder|privili|commit|without|ani|such|elect|if
he|have|other|author|for|it|i|would|his|margin|had|been
so|kind|as|to|have|impart|it
francisc|matcn|de|ritu|bibend|one|cap|one|edit|superioribua
nundini
avhich|would|wish|themselv|whale|so|the|sea|were|strong
lifj|nor
come|clarentirc|c|etcrum|yevo|normauico|iudiscriminatim
come|et|dux|usurpantur|ct|will|conquestor|stupiii|dictus|come
norm
from|clare|in|suolk|vid|polydor|hist|nineteen|ct|camd|in
iccni
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and fifty-three
sog|upon|a|daughter|horn|to|john|of|somerset
john|of|gaunt|duke|of|lancast|had|issu|by|catharin
swinford|john|of|beufort|earl|of|somerset|and|marquess
dorset|to|him|succeed|his|second|son|john|henri|the
eldest|dead|and|was|creat|first|duke|of|somerset|by
henri|v|of|this|john|s|loin|was|margaret|mother|to
henri|vii|his|father|was|edmund|of|hadham|made
earl|of|richmond|by|henri|vi|son|to|owen|tyddonr|de
rive|himself|from|the|british|gadwallad|by|his|wife
queen|catherin|dowag|to|henri|v|and|henc|came|that
royal|ennobl|name|of|tyddour|which|in|the|late|queen
of|happi|memori|end
three hundred and thirty-six|defend|of|the|faith
when|amongst|those|turbul|commot|of|lutheran
and|itomanist|under|charl|v|such|opposit|increas
that|the|pope|s|three|crown|even|totter|at|such|argu
ment|as|were|publish|against|his|pardon|mass|monast
profess|and|the|rest|of|such|doctrin|this|king|henri
that|luther|might|want|no|sort|of|antagonist|wrote|par
ticular|against|him|in|defenc|of|pardon|the|papaci
and|of|their|seven|sacrament|of|which|is|yet|remain
the|origin|in|the|vatican|at|eom|and|with|the|king|s
own|hand|thus|inscrib
anglorum|rex|henricus|leoni|x
mittit|hoc|opus|etfidei|testem
et|amiciticb
hereupon|this|leo|sent|him|the|titl|of|defend|of|tlie
faith|which|was|as|omin|to|what|ensu|for|to
one|thirteen|hin|eight|two|francisc|sweet|in|delic|orbi|christ
hivnj|king|of|england|send|this|to|tope|leo|x|as|a|testi
moni|of|his|faith|and|love|to|him
f|defensor|e|kiia|one|yieidauo|comment|three
two hundred and fifty-four|polyolbion
ward|the|twentyfifth|year|of|his|reign|he|began|so|to|ex
amin|their|tradit|doctrin|live|and|the|numer
fault|of|the|corrupt|time|that|he|was|inde|founder|of
reform|for|induc|of|the|true|ancient|faith
which|by|his|son|edimrd|vi|queen|elizabeth|and|our
present|sovereign|hath|been|to|this|day|piousli|establish
and|defend
to|eas|your|conceit|of|these|king|here|sung|i|add
tlii|chronolog|of|them
10g6|william|i|conquer|england
one thousand and eighty-seven|jviuiam|the|bed|rvfus|second|son|to|the|con
queror
one thousand, one hundred|henri|i|surnam|beuderc|third|son|to|the
first|iviluam
one thousand, one hundred and thirty-five|stephen|earl|of|moreton|and|bologn|son|to
stephen|earl|of|blol|by|adela|daughter|to|the|con
queror|in|both|the|print|of|math|pari|an
108g|you|must|mend|bccccnsis|comiti|and|read
blesensi|comiti|and|howsoev|it|come|to|pass
he|is|in|the|same|author|made|son|to|tedhald|earl
oi|bloi|which|inde|was|his|brother
one thousand, one hundred and fifty-four|henri|ii|son|to|geffcnj|plantagenest|earl|of
anjou|and|maud|the|empress|daughter|to|henri
beuderc
one thousand, one hundred and eighty-nine|bichard|one|ceur|de|lion|son|to|henri|xl
one thousand, one hundred and ninety-nine|john|brother|to|ceur|de|lion
in|matth|pari|dispunctio
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and fifty-five
one thousand, two hundred and sixteen|henri|iii|son|to|king|john
one thousand, two hundred and seventy-three|iklvmrd|i|longsjiank|son|to|henri|iii
one thousand, three hundred and eight|edivard|ii|of|caernarvan|son|to|edward|i|de
pose|by|his|wife|and|son
one thousand, three hundred and twenty-six|edward|iii|son|to|edward|ii
one thousand, three hundred and eighty-seven|richard|ii|of|burdeaux|son|to|edward|the|5fec
princ|son|to|edwcvrd|iii|depos|by|itejri|duke
of|lancast
one thousand, three hundred and ninety-nine|henri|iv|of|bolingbroh|son|to|om|of|gamw
duke|of|lancast|fourth|son|to|edward|iii
one thousand, four hundred and thirteen|ew|v|of|ifonmouth|son|to|izcyouj|iv
one thousand, four hundred and twenty-two|five|t|ir|vi|of|jfindsor|son|to|ewi|v|depos
by|edward|earl|of|march|son|and|heir|to|liicjuird
duke|of|fo|deriv|titl|from|lionel|duke|of
clarenc|and|edmund|of|langley|third|and|fifth
son|of|edward|iii
one thousand, four hundred and sixty|edward|iv|of|roan|son|and|heir|of|fwi|in
the|tenth|of|his|reign|henri|vi|got|again|the
crown|but|soon|lost|both|it|and|life
one thousand, four hundred and eighty-three|edward|v|son|to|the|fourth|of|that|name|mur
dere|with|his|brother|richard|duke|of|york|by
his|uncl|richard|duke|of|gloced
one thousand, four hundred and eighty-three|richard|iii|brother|to|edward|iv|slain|at|bos
worth|field|by|henri|earl|of|richmond|in|him
end|the|name|of|flantagenet|in|our|king
one thousand, four hundred and eighty-five|he7iri|vii|heir|to|the|lancastrian|famili|mar
two hundred and fifty-six|polvolbion
rie|with|elizabeth|heir|to|the|hous|of|t|nk|in
him|the|name|of|tycldoiir|began|in|the|crown
one thousand, five hundred and nine|hennj|viii|of|greenwich|son|to|eennj|vii
one thousand, five hundred and forty-six|edwardyi|of|hampton|cowl|son|to|ilenrywl
one thousand, five hundred and fifty-three|mari|sister|to|edward|vi
one thousand, five hundred and fifty-eight|elizabeth|daughter|to|henri|viii
three hundred and seventy|great|andredswald|sometim
all|that|maritim|tract|comprehend|siissex|and|part
of|kent|so|much|as|was|not|mouutain|now|call|the
down|which|in|britixh|old|gaulish|low|dutch|and|our
english|signifi|but|hill|be|all|woodi|was|call
andredsiveald|ie|andr|s|ivood|often|mention|in|our
stori|and|neicenden|in|kent|by|it|andredcest|as|most
learn|camden|upon|good|reason|guess|whenc|perhap
the|wood|had|his|name|to|this|day|we|call|those|woodi
land|by|north|the|down|the|weald|and|the|channel|of
the|river|that|come|out|of|those|part|and|discontinu
tbe|down|about|brambcr|is|yet|known|in|shorham|ferri
by|the|name|of|ifealddich|and|in|anoth|saxon|word
equival|to|it|are|mani|of|the|parish|termin|on
this|side|the|down|that|is|herst|or|hurst|ie|a|wood
it|is|call|by|ethehverd|expressli|inwrnni|sylva|quce|vuhjb
andredsvuda|mincvpatwr|and|was|one hundred and twenty|mile|long|and|thirty
broad|the|author|s|conceit|of|these|forest|be
kymph|of|this|great|andredsvuda|and|their|complaint|for
dunnm|iiti|ex|clitopliont|apud|plut|habct|camd|et|ibtilinen
kclgis|licuntiir|liivnt|an|narii|oaano|vhjicti|gorop|gallic|one|ajii
we|yet|cull|a|desert|a|wilder|from|this|root
lib|four|eap|three|wood|call|andredc|wood
heuric|huntingdon|hist|five|in|alfrtdo
the|seventeenth|song|two hundred and fifty-seven
loss|of|wood|in|sussex|so|decay|is|plain|enough|to
everi|reader
four hundred and twenty-six|as|arun|which|doth|name|the|beauteous|arundel
so|it|is|conjectur|and|is|without|controversi|justifi
if|that|be|the|name|of|the|eiver|some|fabl|it|from|arun
dcl|the|name|of|bevi|hors|it|were|so|as|toler|as|buce
phalon|from|alemnd|s|hors|timenna|in|licia|from|a
goat|of|that|name|and|such|like|if|time|would|endur|it
but|bevi|was|about|the|conquest|and|this|town|is|by
name|of|eruiulel|known|in|time|of|king|alfr|who|gave
it|with|other|to|his|nephew|athelm|of|all|men|gmopiit
had|somewhat|a|violent|conjectur|when|he|deriv|haron
dell|from|a|peopl|call|charud|in|ptolemi|toward|the
utmost|of|the|now|juitkmd|part|of|whom|he|imagin
about|the|saxon|and|danish|irrupt|plant|themselv
here|and|by|differ|of|dialect|left|this|as|a|branch
sprung|of|their|countri|titl
four hundred and thirty-two|and|adur|come|on|to|shoreham
this|river|that|here|fall|into|the|ocean|might|well|be
understood|in|that|poii|of|adur|about|this|coast|the|relic
whereof|learn|camden|take|to|be|edrington|or|adr
ton|a|littl|from|shmeham|and|the|author|here|so|call
it|adur
four hundred and forty-four|doth|blush|as|2nit|in|mind|of|those|there|sad|slain
in|the|plain|near|hast|where|the|norman|william
after|his|victori|found|king|harold|slain|he|built|battdl
abbey|which|at|last|as|diver|other|monasteri|grew|to
one|plutarch|in|alex|et|q|curt|lib|zero|steph|trpj|irox
testament|alfr|ubi|ctiam|ruitcmmfeild|dkcahnnum|amj
merhijum|fdtham|et|alii|in|hoc|ugro|villx|legantur|osfurtho|ejus
dem|cognato|gothodau|lib|seven
portus|adurni|in|notit|provin
vol|ii|seventeen
two hundred and fifty-eight
polyolbion
a|town|enoug|popul|thereabout|is|a|place|which
after|rain|alway|look|red|which|some|have|by|that|au
thoriti|the|muse|also|attribut|to|a|veri|bloodi|sweat|of
the|earth|as|cri|to|heaven|for|reveng|of|so|great|a
slaughter
gul|parvus|hist|one|cap|one
the|eighteenth|song
ten
the|argument
tlie|rother|through|the|weald|doth|rove
till|he|with|oxneyfal|in|love
eumney|would|with|her|wealth|beguil
and|vnn|the|river|from|the|isl
medway|with|her|attend|stream
goe|forth|to|meet|her|lord|great|tame
and|where|in|breadth|she|her|dispers
our|famous|captain|she|rehears
with|mani|of|their|valiant|deed
then|with|kent|s|piais|the|muse|proceed
and|tell|when|albion|oer|sea|rode
how|he|his|daughterisl|bestow|d
and|how|grim|goodwin|oa|ns|and|fret
wlier|to|this|song|an|end|she|set
ur|arga|scarc|yet|deliv|of|lier|son
when|as|the|river|down|through|andredsweald
doth|run
xor|can|the|age|hill|have|comfort|of|her|child
for|live|in|the|wood|her|bother|wax6d|wild
his|bank|with|age|oak|and|bush|overgrown|five
that|from|the|sijlvan|kind|he|hard|could|be|known
yea|mani|a|time|the|nymph|which|hapt|this|flood|to|see
fled|from|him|whom|they|sure|a|satyr|thought|to|be
one hundred and seventy-two
2g0|polyolbion
as|satyrlik|he|held|all|pleasur|in|disdain
and|would|not|onc|vouchsaf|to|look|upon|a|plain|lo
till|chanc|in|his|cours|to|view|a|good|plot
which|albion|in|his|youth|upon|a|seanymph|got
for|omey|s|love|he|pine|who|be|wild|chast
and|never|woo|d|befor|was|coy|to|be|imbrac|d
but|what|obdur|heart|was|ever|so|pervers|is
whom|yet|a|lover|s|plaint|with|patienc|could|not|piercel
for|in|this|conflict|she|be|last|overthrown
inisl6d|in|his|arm|he|clip|her|for|his|own
who|be|gross|and|black|she|lik|d|the|kiver|well
of|bother|s|happi|match|when|eumnci|marsh|heard|tell
whilst|in|his|youth|cours|himself|he|doth|appli|twenty-one
and|falleth|in|her|sight|into|the|sea|at|liij
she|thinketh|with|herself|how|she|a|way|might|find
to|put|the|home|isl|quit|out|of|bother|s|mind
appear|to|the|flood|most|brave|like|a|queen|twenty-five
clad|all|from|head|to|foot|in|gaudi|summer|s|green
her|mantl|rich|wrought|with|sundri|flower|and|weed
her|moist|templ|bound|with|wreath|of|quiver|reed
amiich|loos|flow|doavn|upon|her|lusti|thigh
most|strong|seem|to|tempt|the|river|s|amor|eye|so
and|on|her|loin|a|frock|with|mani|a|swell|pleat
emboss|d|with|wellspread|hors|larg|sheep|and|fullf
neat
some|wallow|in|the|grass|there|lie|awhil|to|batten
some|sent|away|to|kill|some|thither|brought|to|fatten
avith|villag|amongst|oft|powthr|lure|and|there|thirty-five
and|that|the|same|more|like|to|laudskip|should|ap
pear
with|lake|and|lesser|ford|to|mitig|the|heat
in|summer|when|the|fli|doth|prick|the|gad|neat
a|descript|of|jimnnri|marsh
the|natur|express|of|the|surfac|of|a|countiy|in|paint
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and sixty-one
forc|d|from|the|brake|where|late|they|brow|d|the|velvet
bud
in|which|they|lick|their|hide|and|chew|their|savouri|cud
of|these|her|amor|toy|when|oxiwj|came|to|know|forty-one
suspect|lest|in|time|her|rival|she|might|grow
th|allur|of|the|marsh|the|jealous|isl|do|move
that|to|a|constant|cours|she|thus|persuad|her|love
with|rumnci|though|for|dower|i|stand|in|no|degre|forty-six
in|this|to|be|belov|d|yet|liker|far|than|she
though|i|be|brown|in|me|there|doth|no|favour|lack
the|soul|is|said|deform|d|and|she|extrem|black
and|though|her|rich|attir|so|curious|be|and|rare
from|her|there|yet|proceed|unwholesom|putrid|air|fifty
where|my|complexion|more|suit|with|the|higher|grouml
upon|the|lusti|jfeald|where|strength|still|doth|abound
the|woodgod|i|refus|d|that|su|to|me|for|grace
me|in|thi|watri|arm|thee|suff|ring|to|imbrac
where|to|great|neptun|she|may|one|day|be|a|prey|fifty-five
the|seagod|in|her|lap|lie|wallow|everi|day
and|what|though|of|her|strength|she|seem|to|make|no|doubt
yet|put|unto|the|proof|she|will|hard|hold|him|out
with|this|persuas|speech|which|oxney|late|us|d
with|strang|and|sundri|doubt|whilst|bother|stood|confus|d
old|andredsweald|at|length|doth|take|her|time|to|tell|ei
the|chang|of|the|world|that|sinc|her|youth|befel
when|yet|upon|her|soil|scarc|human|foot|had|trode
a|place|where|onli|then|the|sylvan|made|abod
where|fearless|of|the|hunt|the|hart|secur|stood|sixty-five
and|everywher|walk|d|free|a|burgess|of|the|wood
until|those|danish|rout|whom|hunger|starv|d|at|home
like|wolv|pursu|prey|about|the|world|did|roam
and|stem|the|rude|stream|divid|us|from|fruncc
into|the|spacious|mouth|of|llouier|fell|by|chanc|o
see|to|the|seveuteeuth|song
two hundred and sixty-two|polyolbion
that|lymen|then|was|nam|d|when|with|most|irksom|care
the|heavi|danish|yoke|the|servil|english|bare
and|when|at|last|she|found|there|was|no|way|to|leav
those|whom|she|had|at|first|been|forc|to|receiv
and|by|her|great|resort|she|was|through|veri|need|seventy-five
constrain|to|provid|her|peopl|town|to|feed
she|learn|d|the|churlish|axe|and|twybil|to|prepar
to|steel|the|coulter|s|edg|and|sharp|the|furrow|share
and|more|industri|still|and|onli|hate|sloth
a|housewif|she|becam|most|skill|d|in|make|cloth|so
that|now|the|draper|come|from|london|everi|year
and|of|the|kentish|sort|make|his|provis|there
whose|skirt|t|is|said|at|first|that|fifti|furlong|went
have|lost|their|ancient|bound|now|limit|in|kent
which|strong|to|approv|she|mcdira|j|forth|did|bring|ss
from|sussex|who|t|is|known|receiv|her|silver|spring
who|toward|the|lord|tame|as|she|along|doth|strain
where|teis|clear|beid|and|len|bear|up|her|limber|train
as|she|remov|in|state|so|for|her|more|renown
her|onli|name|she|leav|t|her|onli|christn|town|jt|ninety
and|ilochest|doth|reach|in|entr|to|the|bowar
of|that|most|matchless|tame|her|princ|paramour
whose|bosom|doth|so|pleas|her|sovereign|wit|her|pride
wlierea|the|royal|fleet|continu|doth|ride
that|where|she|told|her|tame|she|did|intend|to|sing|nine
what|to|the|enfjlish|name|immort|prais|should|bring
to|grace|his|good|queen|tame|present|proclaim
that|all|the|kentish|flood|resign|him|their|name
should|present|repair|unto|his|mighti|hall
and|by|the|post|tide|toward|london|send|to|call|one hundred
clear|liavenshurn|though|small|remembr|them|among
at|dctford|entr|whenc|as|down|she|come|along
kfinlhh|cloth|the|weald|of|kent
f|maidston|ic|mcdwaij|town
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and sixty-three
she|darent|thither|warn|who|call|her|sister|cray
avhich|hasten|to|the|court|with|all|the|speed|they|may
and|but|that|imedivay|then|of|tame|obtain|d|such|grace|los
except|her|countri|nymph|that|none|should|be|in|place
more|fdver|from|each|part|had|instant|been|there
than|at|their|marriag|first|by|spenser|numbr|were
this|medway|still|had|nur|d|those|navi|in|her|road
our|armi|that|had|oft|to|conquest|born|abroad|no
and|not|a|man|of|our|for|arm|hath|famous|been
tiom|she|not|go|out|or|come|in|hath|seen
or|by|some|pass|ship|hath|news|to|her|been|brought
what|brave|exploit|they|did|as|where|and|how|they
fought
wherefor|for|audienc|now|she|to|th|assembl|call|ii
the|captain|to|recit|when|serious|she|fall
of|nobl|warrior|now|saith|she|shall|be|my|song
of|those|renown|spirit|that|from|the|conquest|sprong
of|th|english|norman|blood|avhich|matchless|for|their
might
have|with|their|flame|sword|in|mani|a|dread|fight|i2
illustr|this|isl|and|bore|her|fame|so|far
our|hero|which|the|first|wan|in|that|holi|war
such|fear|from|everi|foe|and|made|the|east|more|red
with|splendour|of|their|arm|than|when|from|tlihon|s|bed
the|blush|dawn|doth|break|toward|wliich|our|fame
begon|i|five
by|robert|ciirtlios|call|d|the|conqueror|s|eldest|son
who|with|great|godfrey|and|that|holi|hermitf|went
the|sepulchr|to|free|with|most|devout|intent
and|to|that|titl|which|the|norman|william|got
when|in|our|conquest|here|he|strove|t|includ|the|scot|vso
the|general|of|our|power|that|stout|and|warlik|earl
who|emjlish|be|born|was|styl|d|oi|a|uhemcrl
in|the|faeri|queen|t|peter|the|hermit
two hundred and sixty-four|polyolbion
those|laaj|then|no|less|courag|which|had|there
the|lead|of|the|day|all|brave|command|were
sir|jvalter|especk|match|d|with|pevereu|which|as|far|one hundred and thirty-five
adventur|d|for|our|fame|who|in|that|bishop|s|war
immort|honour|got|to|stephen|s|troubl|reign
that|day|ten|thousand|scot|upon|the|field|were|slain
the|earl|of|slrigid|then|our|strongboic|first|that|won
wild|ireland|yith|the|sword|which|to|the|glorious|sun|one hundred and forty
lift|up|his|nobler|name|amongst|the|rest|may|stand
in|cure|de|lyon|s|charg|unto|the|holi|land
our|earl|of|lester|next|to|rank|with|them|we|bring
and|tumham|he|that|took|th|impostr|cyprian|king
strong|tucjiet|chose|to|wield|the|english|standard|there|one hundred and forty-five
fool|gourney|nevili|gray|lyie|ferr|mortim
and|more|for|want|of|pen|whose|deed|not|brought|to|light
it|griev|my|zealous|soul|i|can|not|do|them|right
the|nobl|penhrook|then|who|stronghow|did|succeed
like|lii|brave|grandsir|made|th|revolt|hish|bleed|one hundred and fifty
when|yield|oft|lliey|oft|their|due|subject|broke
and|when|the|britan|scorn|d|to|bear|the|english|yoke
lewellin|princ|of|jfule|in|battl|overthrew
nine|thousand|valiant|ffelsh|and|either|took|or|slew
earl|bichard|his|brave|son|of|stronghow|s|matchless|strain
as|he|a|marshal|was|did|in|himself|retain|ise
the|natur|of|that|word|be|martial|like|his|name
who|as|his|valiant|sire|the|lish|oft|did|tame
with|him|we|may|compar|marisco|king|of|len
that|lord|chief|justic|was|of|freland|wherea|then|one hundred and sixty
those|two|brave|burrow|john|and|bichard|had|their|place
which|through|the|bloodi|bog|those|irish|oft|did|chase
whose|deed|may|with|the|best|deserv|be|read
as|those|two|lacy|then|our|english|power|that|led
wliich|twenti|thousand|there|did|in|one|battl|quell|one hundred and five
amongst|whom|trodden|down|the|king|of|conaugh|fell
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and sixty-five
then|rdchard|that|lov|d|earl|of|cornwal|here|we|set
who|right|of|the|race|of|great|plantaginet
our|english|armi|shipp|d|to|gain|that|hallow|d|ground
with|longsword|the|brave|son|of|beauteous|rosamond|iro
the|pagan|through|the|breast|like|thunderbolt|that|shot
and|in|the|utmost|east|such|admir|got
that|the|shrillsound|blast|and|terrour|of|our|fame
hath|often|conquer|where|our|sword|yet|never|came
as|gifford|not|forgot|their|stout|associ|there|i75
so|in|the|war|with|wale|of|our|as|famous|here
guy|beuchamp|that|great|earl|of|jfarwick|place|shall|have
from|whom|the|cambrian|hill|the|jfelshmen|could|not
save
whom|he|their|general|plagu|impetu|pursu|d
and|in|the|british|gore|his|slaughtr|sword|imbru|d|iso
in|order|as|they|rise|next|beuchamj|we|prefer
the|lord|john|gifford|match|d|with|edmond|mortim
men|right|mould|up|for|high|adventr|deed
in|this|renown|rank|of|warrior|then|succeed
jvalwin|who|with|such|skill|our|armi|oft|did|guid|iss
in|mani|a|danger|strait|that|had|his|knowledg|tri
and|in|that|fierc|assault|which|caus|d|the|fatal|flight
where|the|distress|welsh|resign|d|their|ancient|right
stout|frampton|by|whose|hand|their|princ|lcicellin|fell
then|fouoweth|as|the|first|who|have|deserv|as|well|i90
great|saintjohn|from|the|french|which|twice|recov
gitijn
and|he|all|him|befor|that|clear|did|outshin
warren|the|puissant|earl|of|surreij|which|led|forth
our|english|armi|oft|into|our|utmost|north
and|oft|of|his|approach|made|scotland|quak|to|hear|one hundred and ninety-five
when|tweed|hath|sunk|down|flat|within|her|bank|for
fear
on|liim|there|shall|attend|that|most|adventur|twhing
two hundred and sixty-six|polyolbion
that|at|scambevm|fight|the|english|off|did|bring
befor|the|furious|scot|that|els|were|like|to|fall
as|basset|last|of|these|yet|not|the|least|of|all|two hundred
those|most|renown|spirit|that|fowkerk|brave|fought
where|longshank|to|our|lore|alhania|last|brought
as|when|our|edward|first|his|titl|did|advanc
and|led|his|english|henc|to|win|his|right|in|franc
that|most|deserv|earl|of|darhi|we|prefer|two hundred and five
henri|s|third|valiant|son|the|earl|of|lancast
that|onli|mar|of|men|who|as|a|general|scourg
sent|by|justjudg|heaven|outrag|franc|to|purg
at|cagant|plagu|d|the|power|of|fleme|that|she|rai|d
against|the|english|forc|which|as|a|handsel|sei|d|two hundred and ten
into|her|veri|heart|he|march|d|in|warlik|wise
took|bergera|langoheck|mountdur|and|mountguys
leau|poudra|and|punach|mountscgr|forsa|won
mountpesan|and|beumount|the|liyal|aigidllon
liochmillon|mauleon|franch|and|angolism|surpri|d|21s
avith|castl|citi|fort|nor|provinc|suffic|d
then|took|the|earl|of|leyl|to|conduct|whom|there|came
nine|viscount|lord|and|earl|astonish|d|at|his|name
to|gascoyn|then|he|goe|to|plagu|her|be|prest
and|man|himself|of|mirahel|possest|two hundred and twenty
surger|and|alnoy|benoon|and|mortain|strook
and|with|a|fear|sieg|he|talehurg|last|took
with|prosper|success|in|lesser|time|did|win
maxnnien|lusingham|mountsorrcu|and|bouin
8ack|d|poytier|which|did|then|that|countri|s|treasur|hold
that|not|a|man|of|our|would|touch|what|was|not|gold|two hundred and twenty-six
with|whom|our|maney|here|deserv|doth|stand
whiich|first|inventor|was|of|that|courag|band
who|clos|d|their|left|eye|up|as|never|to|be|freed
till|there|they|had|acliiev|d|some|high|adventur|deed|two hundred and thirty
sir|walter|manci
the|eighteent|song|two hundred and sixty-seven
he|first|into|the|preas|at|cagant|conflict|flew
and|from|amidst|a|grove|of|gleav|and|halberd|drew
great|darbij|beaten|down|t|amaz|the|men|of|war
when|he|for|england|cri|s|georg|and|lancast
and|as|mine|author|tell|in|his|high|courag|proud|two hundred and thirty-five
befor|his|go|forth|unto|his|mistress|vow|d
he|would|begin|the|war|and|to|make|good|the|same
then|set|foot|in|franc|there|first|with|hostil|flame
forc|d|mortal|n|from|her|tower|the|neighbour|town|to
light
that|sudden|they|caught|a|fever|with|the|fright|two hundred and forty
thin|castl|near|the|town|of|cambray|our|he|made
and|when|the|spanish|power|came|britann|to|invad
both|of|their|aid|and|spoil|them|utter|bereft
this|english|lion|there|the|spaniard|never|left
till|from|all|air|of|franc|he|made|their|lew|fli|two hundred and forty-five
and|fame|herself|to|him|so|ampli|did|appli
that|when|the|most|unjust|calician|had|forethought
into|that|town|then|our|the|frenchrnen|to|have|brought
the|king|of|england|s|self|and|his|renown|son
by|those|perfidi|french|to|see|what|would|be|done|twenty-five
under|his|guydon|march|d|as|privat|soldier|there
so|had|we|still|of|our|in|franc|that|famous|aver
warwick|of|england|then|highconst|that|was
as|other|of|that|race|here|well|i|can|not|pass
that|brave|and|godlik|brood|of|ikucharnp|which|so|long
them|earl|of|warwick|held|so|hardi|great|and|strong|25c
that|after|of|that|name|it|to|an|adag|grew
if|ani|man|himself|adventr|hapt|to|shew
bold|beuchainp|men|him|term|d|if|none|so|bold|as|he
with|those|our|beachamp|may|our|bourcher|reckn|be
liftt|brifann|in|franc
etirard|iii|ami|the|lilack|princ
bold|beucfauup|a|proverb
two hundred and sixty-eight|polyolbion
of|wliich|that|valiant|lord|most|famous|in|those|daj|s|sci
that|hazard|in|franc|so|mani|danger|fray
whose|blade|in|all|the|fight|betwixt|the|french|and|us
like|to|a|blazincrstar|was|ever|omin
a|man|as|if|by|mar|upon|bellomi|got|cm
next|him|stout|cohham|come|that|with|as|prosprous|lot
the|english|men|hath|led|by|whose|auspici|hand
we|often|have|been|known|the|frenchmen|to|command
and|harcourt|though|by|birth|an|alien|yet|our|won
by|england|after|held|her|dear|adopt|son|twenty
which|oft|upon|our|part|was|brave|prov|d|to|do
avho|with|the|hardst|attempt|fame|earnest|did|woo
to|parsward|that|when|the|amyen|fled|by|stealth
within|her|mighti|wall|to|have|inclo|d|their|wealth
befor|her|bulwark|d|gate|the|burgess|he|took|two hundred and seventy-five
whilst|the|parisian|thenc|that|sad|stood|to|look
and|saw|their|fiiith|fiiend|so|wofulli|best
not|onc|durst|issu|out|to|help|them|for|their|head
and|our|john|copland|here|courag|at|home
whilst|everywher|in|franc|those|far|abroad|do|roam|two hundred and eighty
that|at|kewcastl|fight|the|battl|of|the|queen
where|most|the|english|heart|were|to|their|sovereign|seen
took|david|king|of|scot|his|prison|in|the|fight
nor|could|these|war|imploy|our|onli|men|of|might
but|as|the|queen|by|these|did|mighti|thing|achiev|two hundred and eighty-five
so|those|to|britain|sent|the|countess|to|reliev
as|ani|yet|of|our|two|knight|as|much|that|dar|d
stout|dangorn|and|with|him|strong|ilarticel|honour|shar|d
the|dread|diari|de|bloy|that|at|liochdarreii|bet
and|on|the|royal|seat|the|countess|mountfort|set|two hundred
in|each|place|where|they|came|so|fortun|were|our
then|a|udley|raot|rcnown|d|amongst|those|valiant|power
that|with|the|princ|of|jfale|at|contjuer|d|poijter|fought
such|wonder|that|in|arm|befor|both|armi|wrought
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and sixty-nine
the|first|that|charg|d|the|french|and|all|that|dread|day
through|still|renew|world|of|danger|made|his|way|ey
the|man|that|scorn|d|to|take|a|prison|through|his|pride
but|by|plain|downright|death|the|titl|to|decid
and|after|the|retreat|that|famous|battl|done
wherein|rich|spacious|franc|was|by|the|english|won|three hundred
five|hundr|mark|in|fee|that|noblest|princ|bestow|d
for|his|so|brave|attempt|through|his|high|courag|show|d
lich|to|his|four|esquir|he|freeli|gave|who|there
vy|d|valour|with|their|lord|and|in|despit|of|fear
oft|fetch|d|that|day|from|death|where|wound|gap|d|wide
as|hell|three hundred and five
and|cri|and|part|groan|wherea|the|frenchmen|fell
even|made|the|victor|griev|so|horribl|they|were
our|dabridgcourt|the|next|shall|be|remembr|here
at|potjter|who|brake|in|upon|the|alman|hors
through|his|too|forward|speed|but|taken|by|their|forc|sie
and|after|by|the|turn|of|that|so|doubt|fight
be|rescu|d|by|his|friend|in|poifcr|fear|fight
then|like|a|lion|raug|d|about|the|enemi|s|host
and|where|he|might|suppos|the|danger|to|be|most
like|lightn|entr|there|to|his|french|foe|dismay|three hundred and fifteen
to|gratifi|his|friend|which|rescu|d|him|that|day|do
then|chando|whose|great|deed|found|fame|so|much|to
that|she|was|last|forc|d|him|for|her|eas|to|woo
that|minion|of|drad|mar|which|almost|overshon
all|those|befor|him|were|and|for|him|none|scarc|known
at|cambray|s|scale|wall|lii|credit|first|that|won|three hundred and twenty-one
and|by|the|high|exploit|in|franc|by|him|were|done
had|all|so|overaw|d|that|by|his|veri|name
he|could|remov|a|sieg|and|citi|where|he|came
would|at|his|summon|yield|that|man|the|most|belov|d
in|all|the|way|of|war|so|skil|and|approv|d|three hundred and twenty-six
the|honour|bounti|of|the|lord|audley
two hundred and seventy|polyolbiok
the|princ|at|poyter|chose|his|person|to|assist
this|stout|herculean|stem|this|nobl|martiahst
in|battl|twixt|brave|bloy|and|nobl|moimffort|tri|d
at|array|then|the|right|of|britahi|to|decid|three hundred and thirty
eag|d|like|a|furious|storm|beyond|the|jjower|of|man
where|valiant|charl|was|slain|and|the|stern|english|wan
the|royal|british|rule|to|mounffort|s|nobler|name
he|took|strong|tarryer|in|and|anjou|oft|did|tame
gavach|he|regain|d|and|us|bochmador|got|three hundred and thirty-five
wherev|lay|d|he|sieg|that|he|invest|not|one
as|this|brave|warrior|was|so|no|less|dear|to|us
the|rival|in|his|fame|his|onli|cemulus
renown|d|sir|bohert|knoidc|that|in|his|glori|sliar|d
his|chivalri|and|oft|in|present|peril|dar|d|three hundred and forty
as|natur|should|with|time|at|onc|by|these|consent
to|show|that|all|their|store|they|idl|had|not|spent
he|vermandois|oerran|with|skill|and|courag|high
notori|he|plagu|d|revolt|picardi
that|up|to|pari|wall|did|all|befor|him|win|34s
and|dar|d|her|at|her|gate|the|king|that|time|within
a|man|that|all|his|deed|did|dedic|to|fame
then|those|stout|percy|john|and|thoma|men|of|name
the|valiant|goiirney|next|deserv|we|grace
and|uowet|that|with|him|assum|as|high|a|place|s5o
strong|trivet|all|whose|end|at|great|adventur|shot
that|conquer|d|us|mount|pin|and|castl|carcilot
as|famous|in|the|french|as|in|the|behjiqu|war
who|took|the|lord|brimew|and|with|the|great|nararr
in|papaloon|attain|d|an|everlast|prais|sss
courag|caril|next|tlian|whom|those|glorious|day
produc|d|not|ani|spirit|that|through|more|danger|swam
that|princ|thoma|next|the|earl|of|buckingham
to|britani|through|franc|that|our|stout|english|brought
the|blackprinc
the|eighteentn|song|two hundred and seventy-one
which|under|his|command|with|such|high|fortun|fought|three hundred and sixty
as|put|the|world|in|fear|rome|from|her|cinder|rose
and|of|this|earth|again|meant|onli|to|dispos
thrice|valiant|hudicood|then|outshin|all|the|rest
from|london|at|the|first|a|poor|mean|soldier|prest
that|time|but|veri|young|to|those|great|war|in|franc|ses
by|lii|brave|servic|there|himself|did|so|advanc
that|afterward|the|heat|of|those|great|battl|done
in|which|he|to|his|name|immort|glori|won
lead|six|thousand|hors|let|his|brave|guydon|flie
so|pass|through|east|franc|and|entr|lomhardl|sro
by|th|great|of|his|fame|attain|d|so|high|command
that|to|his|charg|he|got|the|white|italian|band
with|mountferato|then|in|all|his|war|he|went
whose|clear|report|abroad|by|fame|s|shrill|trumpet|sent
wrought|that|with|rich|reward|him|3iilan|after|won|three hundred and seventy-five
to|aid|her|in|her|war|with|mantua|then|begon
by|barnabij|f|there|made|the|milanez|guid
his|daughter|who|to|him|fair|domina|affi|d
for|gregorij|then|the|twelfth|he|danger|battl|strook
and|with|a|nobl|sieg|revolt|pavia|took|sso
and|there|as|fortun|rose|or|as|she|did|declin
now|with|the|pisan|serv|d|then|with|the|florentin
the|use|of|th|english|bow|to|italij|that|brought
by|which|he|in|those|war|seem|d|wonder|to|have|wrought
our|ilenrij|hotspur|next|for|high|achiev|meet|ass
who|with|the|thundr|nois|of|his|swift|courser|s|feet
astund|the|earth|that|day|that|he|in|holnulon|s|strife
took|dougla|with|the|earl|oi|anguish|and|of|f|fe
and|whilst|those|hardi|scot|upon|the|firm|earth|bled
with|his|reveng|sword|swich|d|after|them|that|fled|three hundred and ninety
then|calverlci|which|kept|us|calic|with|such|skill
the|marquess|of|mountferato
t|brother|to|galeazo|viscount|of|milan
two hundred and seventy-two|polyolbion
his|honor|d|room|shall|have|our|catalogu|to|fill
who|when|th|rebelli|french|their|liberti|to|gain
from|us|our|ancient|riglit|unjust|did|detain
t|let|bullm|understand|our|just|conceiv|ire|three hundred and ninety-five
her|suburb|and|her|ship|sent|up|to|heaven|in|fire
estapl|then|took|in|that|day|she|held|her|fair
whose|marchandis|he|let|his|soldier|freeli|share
and|got|us|back|saint|mark|s|which|loos|we|had|lost
amongst|these|famous|men|of|us|deserv|most|four hundred
in|these|of|greatst|report|we|glorious|prefer
for|that|his|naval|fight|john|duke|of|excest
the|puissant|fleet|of|jean|which|franc|to|her|did|call
who|merciless|sunk|and|slew|her|admiral
and|one|for|singl|fight|amongst|our|martial|men|four hundred and five
deserv|remembr|here|as|worthili|agen
our|clifford|that|brave|young|and|most|courag|squir
wlio|thorough|provok|d|and|in|a|great|desir
unto|the|enrjlwih|name|a|high|report|to|win
slew|bochnel|hand|to|hand|at|castl|jocelin|four hundred and ten
suppo|d|the|noblest|spirit|that|franc|could|then|pro
duce
now|forward|to|thi|task|proceed|industri|muse
to|him|abov|them|all|our|power|that|did|advanc
john|duke|of|bedford|styl|d|the|firebrand|to|sad|franc
who|to|remov|the|foe|from|sieg6d|harjleiv|sent|four hundred and fifteen
affright|them|like|death|and|as|at|sea|he|went
the|huge|french|navi|fir|d|when|horrid|ncpfiin|roar|d
the|whilst|those|mighti|ship|out|of|their|scupper|pour|d
tlieir|traitrous|cluttr|gore|upon|his|wrinkl|face
he|took|strong|leeri|in|and|like|his|king|race|four hundred and twenty
there|down|befor|vernoyl|the|enylish|standard|stuck
and|have|on|his|helm|his|conquer|brother|s|luck
alaiizoii|on|the|fickl|and|dougliti|dmujlass|laid
which|brought|the|scotlinh|i|over|unto|the|duiqjhln|i|aid
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and seventy-three
and|with|his|fatal|sword|gave|franc|her|fill|of|death|four hundred and twenty-five
till|weari|with|her|wound|she|gasp|lay|for|breath
then|as|if|power|heaven|our|part|did|there|abet
stdl|did|one|nobl|spirit|a|nobler|spirit|beget
so|salsbwi|aros|from|whom|as|from|a|sourc
all|valour|seem|d|to|flow|and|to|maintain|her|forc|four hundred and thirty
from|whom|not|all|their|fort|could|hold|our|treacher
ponfmel|he|regain|d|wliich|our|befor|did|lose|foe
against|the|envious|french|at|cravant|then|came|on
as|sometim|at|the|sieg|of|highrear|d|ilion
the|god|descend|mix|d|with|mortal|in|the|fight|four hundred and thirty-five
and|in|his|lead|show|d|such|valour|and|such|might
as|though|his|hand|had|held|a|more|than|earth|power
took|stuart|in|the|field|and|general|vuntadour
the|french|and|scottish|forc|that|day|which|brave|led
where|few|at|all|escap|d|and|yet|the|wound|fled|four hundred and forty
mount|aguilon|and|moun|great|salsburi|surpri|d
what|time|i|think|in|hell|that|instrument|devi|d
the|first|appear|d|in|franc|as|a|prodigi|birth
to|plagu|the|wretch|world|sent|from|the|envious|earth
whose|veri|roar|seem|d|the|mighti|round|to|shake|four hundred and forty-five
as|though|of|all|again|it|would|a|chao|make
this|famous|general|then|got|gwerland|to|our|use
and|mallcorn|made|our|with|loupland|and|la|suis
saint|bernard|s|fort|s|kate|s|susan|mayan|lyle
the|hermitag|mountseur|baugcnci|and|yanru|four|o
then|he|in|all|her|shape|that|dread|war|had|seen
and|that|with|danger|oft|so|convers|had|been
as|for|her|threat|at|last|he|seeqi|d|not|onc|to|care
and|fortun|to|her|face|adventur|durst|dare
the|earl|of|sujlfblk|pool|the|marshal|that|great|day|four hundred and fifty-five
at|agincourt|where|franc|befor|us|prostrat|lay
our|battl|everywher|that|hectormka|sup|lie
great|ordnanc
vol|ri|eighteen
two hundred and seventy-four|polyolbion
and|march|d|oer|murtherd|pile|of|frenchmen|as|they|die
invest|aubemerl|rich|cozvci|make|our
and|at|the|bishop|s|park|oerthrew|the|dolphin|s|power|46o
through|whose|long|time|in|war|his|credit|so|increa|d
that|he|suppli|the|room|of|salshuri|decea|d
in|this|our|warlik|rank|the|two|stout|asion|then
sir|richard|and|sir|john|so|truli|valiant|men
that|age|yet|to|come|shall|hard|overtop|them|four hundred and sixty-five
umfreril|peachi|branch|mowntgomeri|felton|popham
all|men|of|great|command|and|high|that|deserv|d
courag|ramston|next|so|faith|that|serv|d
at|pari|and|s|jame|de|beneon|where|we|gave
the|french|those|deadlj|foil|that|age|sinc|deprav|four hundred and seventy
the|credit|of|those|time|with|these|so|wondrous|thing
the|memori|of|which|great|jvarivick|forward|bring
who|as|though|in|his|blood|he|conquest|did|inherit
or|in|the|veri|name|there|were|some|secret|spirit
be|chosen|for|these|war|in|our|great|regent|s|place|four hundred and seventy-five
a|dead|foe|to|franc|like|his|brave|roman|race
the|castilet|of|loyr|of|maid|and|of|lvmd
mountdtthlian|and|the|strong|pounforson|beat|to|ground
then|he|abov|them|all|himself|that|sought|to|rais
upon|some|mountaintop|like|a|pyramid6|48o
our|talbot|to|the|french|so|terribl|in|war
that|with|his|veri|name|their|balj|they|us|d|to|scar
tookin|the|strong|laval|all|main|and|overran
as|the|betray|mon|he|from|the|marshal|wan
and|from|the|treacher|ioe|our|valiant|sttfulk|freed|4s
his|shar|and|dread|sword|made|franc|so|oft|to|bleed
till|faint|with|her|wound|she|on|her|wrack|did|fall
took|jore|where|he|hung|her|traitor|on|the|wall
and|with|as|fair|success|wan|beumont|upon|oys
tlic|new|town|in|esmoy|and|crispin|in|valoy|one hundred
jrcilc|with|suint|maxincsbridj|and|at|avranchc|aid
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and seventy-five
befor|whose|batter|d|wall|the|foe|was|strong|laid
march|d|in|as|of|the|sieg|at|all|he|had|not|known
and|happili|reliev|d|the|hardlygotten|roan
who|at|the|veri|hint|came|with|auspici|feet|four hundred and ninety-five
wherea|the|traitrous|french|he|miser|beat
and|have|overspread|all|pkarc|with|war
proud|burgainc|to|the|field|he|last|sent|to|dare
which|with|his|english|friend|so|oft|his|faith|had|broke
whose|countri|he|made|mourn|in|cloud|of|smouldr
smoke|five hundred
then|gysor|he|again|then|did|saint|denis|raze
his|parallel|with|him|the|valiant|scale|we|prais
which|oft|put|sword|to|sword|and|foot|to|foot|did|set
and|that|the|first|alon|the|garland|might|not|get
vith|him|hath|hand|in|hand|leap|d|into|danger|s|jaw|five hundred and five
and|oft|would|forward|mt|where|talbot|stood|to|paus
equal|in|fame|which|with|an|equal|lot
both|at|saint|denis|sieg|and|battr|guysor|got
befor|pontorson|s|wall|who|when|great|jfarwich|lay
and|he|with|soldier|sent|a|forag|for|prey|r|io
six|thousand|french|oerthrew|with|half|their|numbr
power
and|absolut|made|both|main|and|anjou|our
to|jfilloughhi|the|next|the|place|by|turn|doth|fall
whose|courag|like|was|to|bear|it|from|them|all
with|admir|oft|on|whom|they|stood|to|look|ei
saint|valeri|s|proud|gate|that|off|the|hing|shook
in|burgondi|that|forc|d|the|recreant|french|to|fli
and|beat|the|rebel|down|disordr|normandi
that|amien|near|laid|wast|whose|strength|her|could|not
save
and|the|perfidi|french|out|of|the|countri|drave|r20
with|these|anoth|troop|of|nobl|spirit|there|sprong
that|with|the|foremost|press|d|into|the|warlik|throng
is|two
two hundred and seventy-six|polyolbion
the|first|of|whom|we|place|that|stout|sir|philip|hall
s|j|famous|in|the|fight|against|the|count|s|paul
that|crotoy|us|regain|d|and|in|the|conflict|twixt|bi
the|english|and|the|french|that|with|the|scot|were|mixt
on|proud|cluirk|cleremont|won|that|admir|day
strong|fastolph|avith|this|man|compar|we|just|maj
by|salsburi|who|oft|be|serious|imploy|d
in|mani|a|brave|attempt|the|general|foe|annoy|d|sso
with|excel|success|in|alain|and|anjou|fought
and|mani|a|bulwark|there|into|our|keep|brought
and|chosen|to|go|forth|with|vadamont|in|war
most|resolut|took|proud|renat|duke|of|barr
the|valiant|dmyton|then|sir|fuchard|and|sir|john|five hundred and thirty-five
by|ani|english|spirit|yet|hard|overgon
the|fame|they|got|in|franc|with|cost|wound|that|bought
in|gasconi|and|guym|who|oft|and|stout|fought
then|valiant|matthew|gough|for|whom|the|english|were
much|bound|to|nobl|wale|in|all|our|battl|there|five hundred and forty
or|sieg|or|besieg|d|that|never|fail|d|our|forc
oft|hazard|his|blood|in|mani|a|desper|cours
he|beat|the|bastard|balm|with|his|select|band
and|at|his|castleg|surpri|d|him|hand|to|hand
and|spite|of|all|his|power|away|him|prison|bare|five hundred and forty-five
our|hardi|burdet|then|with|him|we|will|compar
besieg|d|within|saint|jame|de|beneon|issu|out
cri|salsburi|s|georg|with|such|a|horrid|shout
that|cleft|the|wandr|cloud|and|with|his|valiant|crew
upon|the|envi|frenclo|like|hungri|lion|flew|five hundred and fifty
and|arthur|earl|of|eurc|and|bichmont|took|in|fight
tlien|follow|them|in|heat|the|armi|put|to|flight
the|britan|french|and|scot|receiv|d|a|general|sack
as|fli|one|fell|still|upon|anoth|s|back
here|our|six|hundr|slew|so|mani|thousand|more|five hundred and fifty
at|our|so|good|success|that|onc|a|frenchman|swore
tee|eighteexth|song|two hundred and seventy-seven
that|god|was|wholli|turn|d|unto|the|english|side
and|to|assist|the|french|the|devil|had|deni|d
then|here|our|kerril|claim|his|room|amongst|tlie|rest
who|just|if|compar|d|might|match|our|veri|best|ooo
he|in|our|war|in|franc|with|our|great|talbot|oft
with|willoughhj|and|scale|now|down|and|then|aloft
endur|d|the|sundri|turn|of|oftenvari|fate
at|cleremonf|seiz|d|the|earl|befor|his|citi|gate
eight|hundr|faithless|french|who|took|or|put|to|sword
and|by|his|valour|twice|to|artoys|us|restor|d|five hundred and sixty-six
in|this|our|servic|then|great|arondel|doth|ensu
the|marshal|bousack|who|in|beuroy|overthrew
and|in|despit|of|franc|and|all|her|power|did|win
the|castl|darl|kellay|s|lawrenc|bomeun|sro
took|silli|and|count|lore|at|sellerin|subdu|d
where|with|her|owner|s|blood|her|build|he|imbru|d
revolt|loveer|sack|d|and|man|supprest
those|rebel|that|so|oft|did|normandi|molest
as|poyrdnrj|such|high|prais|in|gelderland|that|got|srs
on|the|savoyan|side|that|with|our|english|shot|fear
strook|warlik|five|six|and|stratd|when|flander|shook|with
as|howard|by|whose|hand|we|so|renown|were
whose|great|success|at|sea|much|fam|d|our|english|fleet
that|in|a|naval|fight|the|scottish|barton|beat|r|su
and|set|foot|in|franc|her|horribl|did|fright
as|if|great|chando|ghost|or|fear6d|talbot|s|spright
had|com|n|to|be|their|scourg|their|fame|again|to|earn
who|haang|stout|sack|d|both|narbin|and|devernn
the|castl|of|de|boy|of|fring|took|us|there|i
of|columburg|of|beioe|of|dorian|and|daveer
in|scoilcdid|and|again|the|march|east|to|west
did|ndth|invas|war|most|terribl|infest
a|nobler|of|that|name|the|earl|of|surri|then
that|famous|hero|fit|both|for|the|spear|and|pen|so
two hundred and seventy-eight|polyolbiox
from|flodderi|doubt|fight|that|forward|scottish|king
in|his|victori|troop|who|home|with|him|did|bring
liebelli|ireland|scourg|d|in|britani|and|wan
us|morl|happi|time|that|bredst|so|brave|a|man
to|cobham|next|the|place|deserv|doth|fall|five hundred and ninety-five
in|franc|who|then|imploy|d|with|our|great|admiral
in|his|success|road|blew|selloi|up|in|fire
took|bottingham|and|bruce|with|samkerk|and|mansier
our|peachi|nor|our|carr|nor|thoma|shall|be|hid
that|at|the|field|of|spur|by|tirwyn|stout|did|eoo
sand|guyldford|pcdmer|lyle|fiizicilliam|and|with|them
brave|dacr|musgrav|bray|coe|wharton|jerningham
great|martialist|and|men|that|were|renown|far
at|sea|some|in|the|french|some|in|the|scottish|war
courag|randolph|then|that|serv|d|with|great|com
mand|six hundred and five
befor|newhaven|first|and|then|in|ireland
the|longrenown|d|lord|gray|whose|spirit|we|oft|did
tri
a|man|that|with|drad|iar|stood|in|account|most|high
sir|thoma|morgan|tlien|much|fame|to|us|that|wan
when|in|our|maiden|reign|the|belgiqu|war|began|oio
mio|with|our|friend|the|dutch|for|england|stout|stood
when|netherland|first|learn|d|to|lavish|gold|and|blood
sir|roger|william|next|of|both|which|wale|might|vaunt
his|martial|compeer|then|and|brave|commilit
whose|conflict|with|the|french|and|spanish|man|fought
much|honour|to|their|name|and|to|the|britan|brought|eie
th|lord|willoughbi|may|well|be|reckon|d|with|the|rest
inferior|not|a|whit|to|ani|of|our|best
a|man|so|made|for|war|as|though|from|palla|sprong
sir|richard|bingham|then|our|valiant|men|among|six hundred and twenty
himself|in|bchjia|well|and|ireland|who|did|bear
our|onli|school|of|war|this|later|time|that|were
the|eighteenth|soxg|two hundred and seventy-nine
as|stanji|whose|brave|act|at|zatphm|s|servic|done
much|glori|to|the|day|and|hiui|his|knighthood|won
our|noblest|norric|next|whose|fame|shall|never|die|twenty-five
whilst|belgia|shall|be|knovti|or|there|is|a|biitani
in|whose|brave|height|of|spirit|time|seem|d|as|to|restor
those|who|to|th|eikjjhh|name|such|honour|gain|d|of|jore
great|essex|of|our|peer|the|last|that|ere|we|knew
th|old|world|s|hero|live|who|likeliest|did|renew|eso
the|soldier|onli|hope|who|stout|serv|d|in|franc
and|on|the|tower|of|cede|as|proud|did|advanc
our|english|ensign|then|and|made|iberia|quak
when|as|our|warlik|fleet|rode|on|the|surg|lake
t|receiv|that|citi|s|spoil|which|set|her|batter|d|gate|six hundred and thirty-five
wide|ope|t|affright|spaijn|to|see|her|wretch|state
next|charl|lord|mountjoy|sent|to|ireland|to|suppress
the|envious|rebel|there|by|whose|most|fair|success
the|trowztd|irish|led|by|their|unjust|tyron
and|the|proud|spanish|forc|were|just|overthrown|eto
that|still|kiiisal|shall|keep|and|faith|record|bear
what|by|the|english|prowess|was|execut|there
then|liv|d|those|valiant|vere|both|men|of|great|command
in|our|imploy|long|whose|either|martial|hand
ileach|d|at|the|highest|wreath|it|from|the|top|to|get|64a
which|on|the|proudest|head|fame|yet|had|ever|set
our|dokwray|morgan|next|sir|samuel|bagnal|then
stout|lambert|such|as|well|deserv|a|live|pen
true|martialist|and|knight|of|nobl|spirit|and|wit
the|valiant|cicil|last|for|great|iinploy|fit|eso
deserv|in|war|the|latst|of|our|that|rose
whose|honour|everi|hour|and|fame|still|greater|grow
when|now|the|kentish|nymph|do|interrupt|her|song
by|let|medway|know|she|tarri|had|too|long
sir|edw|stanley|sir|franci|and|sir|horac
three|sir|henri|sir|edmomi|sir|oliv
two hundred and eighty|polyolbion
upon|this|warlik|troop|and|all|upon|them|laid|c55
yet|for|their|nobler|kent|she|nought|or|littl|said
when|as|the|pliant|muse|straight|turn|her|about
and|come|to|the|land|as|meduai|goeth|out
salut|the|dear|soil|famous|kenf|quoth|she
what|countri|hath|this|isl|that|can|compar|with|thee|sixty
avhich|hast|within|thyself|as|much|as|thou|canst|wish
thi|coni|venson|fruit|thi|sort|of|fowl|and|fish
as|what|with|strength|comport|thi|hay|thi|corn|thi|wootl
nor|anyth|doth|want|that|anywher|is|good
where|thameswavd|to|the|shore|which|shoot|upon|the|rise
liich|tcjtham|undertak|thi|closet|to|suffic|coo
with|cherri|which|we|say|the|summer|in|doth|bring
wherewith|pomona|crown|the|plump|and|lust|spring
from|whose|deep|ruddi|cheek|sweet|zephyr|kiss|steal
with|their|delici|touch|his|lovesick|heart|that|heal|oro
wlios|golden|garden|seem|th|hcqjerid|to|mock
nor|there|the|dainzoii|want|nor|dainti|ahricock
nor|pipinn|which|we|hold|of|kernelfruit|the|king
tlie|appleorendg|then|the|savouri|russet
the|pearemam|which|to|franc|long|ere|to|us|was|known
wiiich|care|fruitrer|now|have|denizen|d|our|own|ero
the|lienat|which|though|first|it|from|the|pippin|came
grown|through|his|pure|nice|assum|that|curious|name
upon|that|pippin|stock|the|pippin|be|set
as|on|the|gentl|when|the|gentl|doth|beget|oso
both|by|the|sire|and|dame|be|ancient|descend
the|issu|born|of|them|his|blood|hath|much|amend
the|swcetinij|for|wlios|sake|tlie|i|lowl|oy|oft|make|war
the|jnidini|costard|then|the|wellknown|pomivat
and|sundri|other|fruit|of|good|yet|sever|tast|ess
that|have|their|sundri|name|in|sundri|countri|plac|d
unto|whose|dear|increas|the|garden|spend|his|life
with|percer|wimbl|saw|id|mallet|and|his|knife
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and eighty-one
oft|covereth|oft|doth|bare|the|dri|and|moistn|root
as|faint|they|mislik|or|as|they|kind|suit|o
and|their|select|plant|doth|workmanlik|bestow
that|in|true|order|they|conveni|may|grow
and|kill|the|slimi|snail|the|worm|and|labour|ant
which|mani|time|annoy|the|graft|and|tender|plant
or|els|maintain|the|plot|much|starv|by|the|avet|oj5
wherein|his|daintiest|fruit|in|kernel|he|doth|set
or|scrapeth|off|the|moss|the|tree|that|oft|annoy
but|with|these|trifl|thing|whi|idl|do|i|toy
who|ani|way|the|time|intend|not|to|prolong
to|those|thamidan|isl|now|nimbl|turn|my|song|too
fair|shepoj|and|the|grean|suffici|suppli|d
to|beautifi|the|place|where|mnlway|show|her|pride
but|grean|seem|most|of|all|the|medwaij|to|ador
and|tenet|stand|forth|to|the|bkutiipian|shore
by|mighti|albion|plac|d|till|his|return|again|rus
from|gaul|where|after|he|by|hercul|was|slain
for|earthborn|albion|then|great|neptun|s|eldest|son
ambiti|of|the|fame|by|stern|alcid|won
would|over|need|to|gaul|with|him|to|hazard|fight
twelv|labour|which|befor|accomplish|d|by|his|might|no
his|daughter|then|but|young|on|whom|was|all|his|care
which|bori|theti|nympli|unto|the|giant|bare
with|whom|those|isl|he|left|and|will|d|her|for|his|sake
that|in|their|grandsir|s|court|she|much|of|them|would
make
but|temt|th|eldst|of|three|when|albion|was|to|go|ris
which|lov|d|her|fjther|best|and|loth|to|leav|him|so
there|at|the|giant|raught|which|was|porceiv|d|by|chanc
this|love|isl|would|els|have|follow|d|him|to|franc
to|make|the|channel|wide|that|then|he|forc|was
wherea|some|say|befor|he|us|d|ou|foot|to|pass|ro
near|sandivkh
two hundred and eighty-two|polyolbion
thus|tend|be|stay|d|and|sure|settl|there
wlio|noth|less|than|want|and|idl|could|bear
doth|onli|give|herself|to|tillag|of|the|ground
with|sundri|sort|of|grain|whilst|thus|she|doth|abound
she|fall|in|love|with|stour|which|come|down|by|wye|v25
and|toward|the|good|isl|his|feet|doth|nimbl|pli
to|canterhunj|then|as|kind|he|resort
his|famous|countri|thus|he|glorious|report
nobl|kent|quoth|he|this|prais|doth|thee|belong
the|hardst|to|be|control|d|impatientest|of|wrong|seven hundred and thirty
who|when|the|norman|first|with|pride|and|horror|sway|d
threwst|off|the|servil|yoke|upon|the|english|laid
and|with|a|high|resolv|most|brave|didst|restor
that|liberti|so|long|enjoy|d|by|thee|befor
not|suffr|foreign|law|should|thi|free|custom|bind
then|onli|showdst|thyself|of|th|ancient|saxon|kind|thirty-six
of|all|the|english|shire|be|thou|surnam|d|the|free
ami|foremost|ever|plac|d|when|they|shall|reckn|be
and|let|this|town|avhich|chief|of|thi|rich|countri|is
of|all|the|biilish|see|be|still|metropoli|seven hundred and forty
which|have|said|the|stour|to|tend|him|doth|hie
her|in|his|love|arm|imbrac|by|and|by
into|the|mouth|of|tame|one|arm|that|forth|doth|lay
the|other|thrust|out|into|the|celtiqu|sea
grim|goodwin|all|this|while|seem|grievous|to|low|r|seven hundred and forty-five
xor|care|he|of|a|straw|for|tennet|nor|her|stour
still|bear|in|his|mind|a|mortal|hate|to|franc
sinc|mighti|albion|s|fall|by|war|s|incertain|chanc
who|sinc|his|wish|d|reveng|not|all|this|while|is|had
twixt|veri|grief|and|rage|is|fall|n|extrem|mad|7o
tliat|wjryou|the|roll|tide|doth|stir|him|with|her|wave
straiglit|foam|at|the|mouth|impati|he|rave
and|strive|to|swallow|up|the|seamark|in|his|deep
that|warn|the|wandr|ship|out|of|his|jaw|to|keep
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and eighty-three
the|surgeon|of|the|sea|do|all|their|skill|appli|r
if|possibl|to|cure|his|grievous|maladi
as|amphitrit|s|nymph|their|veri|utmost|prove
by|all|the|mean|they|could|his|mad|to|remov
from|greenwich|to|these|sand|some|scurvygrass|do|bring
that|inward|appli|s|a|wondrous|sovereign|thing|too
from|slicpey|seamoss|some|to|cool|his|boil|blood
some|his|i|willseason|d|mouth|that|wise|understood
rob|dovc7|s|neighbour|cleev|of|sampyr|to|excit
his|dull|and|sick|tast|and|stir|up|appetit
now|shepey|when|she|found|she|could|no|further|wade
after|her|mighti|sire|betak|her|to|his|trade|ree
with|sheephook|in|her|hand|her|good|flock|to|heed
and|cherisheth|the|kind|of|those|choic|kentish|breed
of|villag|she|hold|as|husband|a|port
as|ani|british|isl|that|neighboureth|keptun|s|court|seven hundred and seventy
but|grean|as|much|as|she|her|father|that|did|love
and|then|the|inner|land|no|further|could|remov
in|such|continu|grief|for|aution|doth|abid
that|almost|underflood|she|weepeth|everi|tide
simpl|frequent|in|these|place
illustr
ut|of|sussex|into|it|eastern|neighbour|kent|this
canto|lead|you|it|begin|with|bother|whose
run|through|the|wood|inisl|oxney|and
such|like|poetic|here|describ|is|plain|enough
to|ani|apprehend|conceit|and|upon|mcdway|song|of
our|martial|and|heroic|spirit|becaus|a|larg|volum
might|be|written|to|explain|their|glori|in|particular|action
and|in|less|comprehens|without|wrong|to|mani|worthi
it|is|not|perform|i|have|omit|all|illustr|of|that
kind|and|lelt|you|to|the|muse|herself
seventy-one|that|limen|then|was|imm|d
so|the|author|conjectur|that|bother|s|mouth|was|the
place|call|liitirn|at|which|the|dane|in|time|of|king
alfr|made|irrupt|which|he|must|i|think|maintain
by|ad|likelihood|that|bother|then|fell|into|the|ocean
about|with|where|as|the|relic|of|the|name|in|lime|and
the|distanc|from|canterburi|in|antoninus|make|portus
lernani|which|is|misprint|in|surita|s|edit|pontem
lemani|sixteen|mile|oft|it|seem|limen|was|and|if
bother|were|limen|then|also|there|was|it|discharg|out|of
lemanni|in|natit|utr|provinc
the|eighteenth|song|two hundred and eighty-five
the|land|but|for|the|author|s|word|read|this|equestri
parjanorum|exercitus|cum|sui|equi|col|navibus|cuntiani
tnmsvedus|in|ostio|amni|limen|qui|de|sylva|magna|andr
nominatd|decurrit|applkuit|b|cujus|ostio|iv|milliarii|in|ean
dem|sijlvam|nave|sua|stir|sum|traxit|ubi|quandam|arcem|semi
structam|quani|pauci|inhabdab|villanl|diruerunt|auamqu
sibi|firmiorem|in|loco|qui|dicltur|aipnltrea|construxerunt|which
are|the|syllabl|of|florenc|of|worcest|and|with|him|in
substanc|fulli|agre|matfmv|of|westminst|nor|can|i
think|but|that|they|imagin|rye|where|now|bother|hath
it|mouth|to|be|this|port|of|limen|as|the|muse|here|if
you|respect|her|direct|term|henri|of|huntingdon|name
no|river|at|all|but|land|them|ad|portum|limen|cum|two hundred and fifty
navibus|qui|portus|est|in|oriental|p|art|cent|juxta|magnum
nemv|andredslaiget|how|eother|s|mouth|can|be|proper
said|in|the|east|but|rather|in|the|south|part|of|kent|i
conceiv|not|and|am|of|the|advers|part|think|clear
that|hifh|must|be|portus|lemani|which|is|that|coast|as
also|learn|camden|teach|whose|author|cite|out|of
huntingdon|be|near|the|same|time|with|florenc|might
be|jjtrhap|thought|but|as|of|equal|credit|therefor|i|call
anoth|wit|that|live|not|much|past|fifti|year|after
the|arriv|in|these|word|in|limneo|portu|constituunt|pup
pes|5l|joltjr|so|i|read|for|the|print|is|corrupt|loco|con
dieto|orientali|cantii|part|dcstruuntqu|ibi|pirisco|oper|castrum
propter|quod|rustica|manus|exigua|cpdppe|intrinsecus|erat|illic
que|kiberna|castra|confirmantx|out|of|which|you|note|both
that|no|river|but|a|port|onli|is|spoken|of|and|that|the
the|dane|with|two hundred and fifty|sail|came|into|the|mouth|of|tho|river
limen|which|run|out|of|andredmnald|from|whenc|four|mile|into
the|wood|they|got|in|their|ship|and|built|them|a|fort|at|aphdor
eight hundred and ninety-three|t|at|port|limen|by|andredswald|in|the|east|of|kent
ethelwerd|lib|four|cap|four
x|they|leav|their|ship|in|portzmer|make|their|rendezv
at|a|npledour|in|the|east|of|kent|for|this|may|i|etter|endur|that
uaiiio|and|there|destroy|one|castl|a|id|built|anoth
2sg|polyolbion
ship|were|left|in|the|shore|at|the|haven|and|thenc|the
dane|convey|their|compani|to|apledowr|the|avord|of
this|ethelicerd|i|respect|much|more|than|these|later|stori
and|i|would|advis|my|reader|to|inclin|so|with|me
four hundred and forty-two|jfjiat|time|i|think|in|liell|that|instrument|devis
he|mean|a|gnn|wherewith|that|most|nobl|and|right
martial|thoinaa|montagu|earl|of|salislniri|at|the|sieg|of
orlean|in|time|of|hen|vi|was|slain|the|first|inventor|of
them|i|guess|you|dislik|not|the|addit|was|one|berthold
swartz|other|say|constantin|anuitzen|a|dutch|ionk|and
ch|tnist|who|have|in|a|mortar|sulphur|powder|fur
medicin|cover|with|a|stone|a|spark|of|fire|by|chanc
fall|into|it|fire|it|and|the|flame|remov|the|stone
which|he|observ|made|use|afterward|of|the|like|in|littl
pipe|of|iron|and|show|the|use|to|the|venetian|in|their
war|with|the|genoway|at|chioggia|about|one thousand, three hundred and eighty|thus|is
the|common|assert|but|i|see|as|good|author|that|it
was|use|abov|twenti|year|befor|in|the|danish|sea|i
avil|not|disput|the|conveni|of|it|in|the|world|compar
it|with|sahioneii|imit|of|thunder|archimed|his|en
gine|and|such|like|nor|tell|you|that|the|chinoi|had|it
and|print|so|mani|age|befor|us|as|mendoza|moffi
and|other|deliv|but|not|with|persuad|credit|to|all
their|reader
seven hundred and twenty|jfherea|some|say|befor|he|usd|on|foot|to|pass
the|allus|is|to|britain|s|be|heretofor|join|to|gaul
in|this|strait|twixt|dover|and|calai|some|thirti|mile
over|as|some|modern|have|conjectur|that|learn
antiquari|tlclne|is|veri|confid|in|it|and|deriv|the
name|from|b3rith|signifi|as|he|say|as|much|as|uttl
vid|polyj|dc|invent|ror|two|cap|two|ct|stlnmth|ad|g|pancirol
two|tit|is|achill|gassar|ap|muiist|cosmog|three
the|eighteenth|sokg|two hundred and eighty-seven
ie|a|separ|in|welsh|whenc|the|isl|of|wirfht|was|so
call|guith|and|wicjht|be|soon|made|of|each|other|of
this|opinion|is|the|late|ferstegan|as|you|may|read|in|him
and|for|examin|of|it|our|great|light|of|antiqu|cam
den|hath|propos|diver|consider|in|which|experi
of|particular|must|direct|howsoev|this|was|in|truth|it
is|as|like|for|ought|i|see|as|that|cyprus|was|onc|join
to|syria|evhcea|now|xecjroponf|to|buotia|atalantc|to|eu
hcea|belbicum|to|bithynia|leucosia|to|thrace|as|is|affirm
and|sicili|whose|like|our|island|is|was|certain|broken|off
from|the|contin|o|itali|as|both|virgil|expressli|strabo
and|plini|deliv|and|also|the|name|of|iihegium|xaoa|seventy
rrym|sai|and|of|the|self|sicili|which|rather|than|from
secar|i|deriv|from|sicilir|which|is|of|the|same|signifi
cation|and|nearer|in|analog|clauclian|call|the|isl
cliducta|britannia|munch
and|virgil|hath
toto|cliviso|orh|britanno|t
where|servius|is|of|opinion|that|for|this|purpos|the
learn|poet|use|that|phrase|and|it|deserv|inquisit
how|beast|of|rapin|as|fox|and|such|like|came|first|into
this|island|for|england|and|jtalc|as|now|scotland|and|ire
land|had|store|of|wolv|until|some|three|hundr|year
sinc|if|it|were|not|join|to|a|firm|land|that|either|by
like|conjunct|or|narrow|passag|of|swim|might|re
ceiv|them|from|that|contin|where|the|ark|rest
avhich|is|armenia|that|men|desir|to|transport|them|is
sam|beulan|ad|nennium|plin|hist|nat|two|cap|eighty-eight
from|hreak|us|timius|ilist|four|et|strab|a
to|cut|oil|van|do|lie|itust|one|cap|forty-nine
britain|jjiill|from|tlie|world
t|b|itom|divid|from|the|whole|world
two hundred and eighty-eight|polvolbion
not|like|and|a|learn|jesuit|hath|conjectur|that|the
fvest|indi|are|therefor|or|have|been|join|with|firm
land|becaus|they|have|lion|wolv|panther|and|such
like|which|in|the|jbarmudez|cuba|hisj|aniola|s|domingo
and|other|remot|isl|are|not|found|but|no|place|here
to|disput|the|question
seven hundred and thirty-five|not|svffring|foreign|law|shoidd|thi|free|custom|hind
to|explain|it|t|thus|english|you|a|fragment|of|an|old
monk|jvhen|the|norman|conqueror|had|the|day|he|came
to|dover|castl|that|he|might|with|the|same|subdu|kent|also
wherear|stigand|archbishop|aid|egelsin|abbot|as|the|chief
of|that|shire|observ|that|now|loherea|heretofor|no|villein
the|latin|is|nullus|fuerat|servus|and|appli|it|to|our|law
phrase|i|translat|it|had|been|in|englaml|they|should|be|noiv
all|in|bondag|to|the|norman|they|assembl|all|the|counti
and|show|the|immin|danger|the|insol|of|the|norman
and|the|hard|condit|of|villenag|they|resolv|all|rather
to|die|than|lose|their|freedom|liurpos|to|encouniericith|the|duke
for|their|countri|s|liberti|their|coptabi|are|the|archbishop
and|tlie|abbot|upon|an|appoint|day|they|meet|all|at|swane
comb|and|harbour|themselv|in|tjie|wood|with|bough|in
everi|man|s|hand|they|encompass|his|way|the|next|day|the
duke|come|by|swanescomb|seem|to|see|with|amaz
as|it|were|a|ivood|approach|toward|him|the|kentish|men|at
tiie|sound|of|a|trumpet|take|themselv|to|arm|when|present
the|archhisliop|awl|abbot|were|sent|to|the|duke|and|salut|him
with|tlies|word|jsehold|sir|duke|the|kentish|men|come|to
meet|you|will|to|receiv|you|as|their|lieg|lord|upon|that|con
dition|that|tliey|may|for|ever|enjoy|their|ancient|liberti|and
law|use|among|their|ancestor|othcncis|pirescnuy|offer
war|be|readi|rather|to|die|than|undergo|a|yoke|of|jjondag
tohe|h|acost|dc|natur|novi|orhia|one|cap|twenty|et|twenty-one
th|spotus|ap|lamb|in|explic|nerl
the|fjghteentii|song|two hundred and eighty-nine
aiul|lose|their|ancient|law|the|norman|in|this|narroiv|jnnch
not|so|willinghj|as|luis|grant|the|desir|ami|hostag|given
on|both|side|the|kentish|men|direct|the|norman|to|eochest
and|deliv|them|the|counti|and|the|castl|of|dover|hither
is|common|refer|the|retain|of|ancient|liberti|in
kent|inde|it|is|certain|that|special|custom|they|have
in|their|gavelkind|although|now|mani|of|their|gentlemen|s
possess|are|alter|in|that|part|svffere|for|feloni
without|forfeitur|of|estat|and|such|like|as|in|particular
with|mani|other|dilig|tradit|you|have|in|lamhard|s
perambul|yet|the|report|of|thoma|spot|is|not|me
think|of|clear|credit|as|well|by|reason|that|no|warrant|of
the|historian|about|the|conquest|affirm|it|and|this|monk
live|under|edward|i|as|also|for|his|comnaixtur|of|a
fauxet|about|villenag|say|it|was|not|in|england|befor
that|time|which|is|appar|fals|by|diver|testimoni
gij|jjeop|say|king|ie|s|law|pyjic|on|sunnan|bse|be|hij
hlafojibej|hayc|jy|he|ppeo|and|under|edward|the|con
fessor|ci|orolb|of|j3rucl3cnal|grant|to|the|abbey|of|croiv
land|his|manor|of|spald|with|all|the|appurten|sci
licet|colgvinnm|jroipositum|meum|et|totam|sequclam|suam|cum
omnibus|boni|et|catcd|quce|habet|in|dicta|villa|c|item
hardingum|fahum|et|totam|sequelam|suam|and|the|young
wench|of|andev|that|edgar|was|in|love|with|was|a|niefl
but|for|kent|perhap|it|might|be|true|that|no|villein|were|in
it|see|sinc|that|time|it|hath|l|een|adjudg|in|our|law
that|one|born|there|could|not|without|cogniz|of|record
be|a|villein
stat|thirty-one|ilni|eight|cap|three
if|a|villein|work|on|jzmday|by|his|lord|s|command|he|shall|be
free
colfjrin|my|bailiff|and|his|issu|with|all|good|and|chattel|c
three|itin|cornub|thirty|ed|one|fillenagc|forty-six|et|mich|five|m|two|ms|in
bibliothec|int|tempi|cas|john|de|oarton
vol|eleven|nineteen
two hundred and ninety|folyolbion
v38|and|foremost|ever|plac|d|wjien|they|shall|reckon|d|he
for|this|honour|of|the|kentish|hear|one|that|wrote|it
about|hen|ii|enudus|as|some|copi|are|but|other
cinidus|and|perhap|it|should|so|be|or|rather|cnudv|for
king|cnut|or|els|i|can|not|conjectur|what|quanta|virtut
anglorum|daco|banosqud|fregerit|motilsqii|compesciicrit|no
ricorum|vel|ex|eo|persjncuum|est|quod|oh|egrerjim|virtuti|meritum
qiiam|ibidem|potenth|et|jmtenter|exercuit|cantia|nostra|prims
cohorti|honorem|et|primus|congressus|hostium|usqu|in
hodiernum|diem|in|omnibus|prmlii|obtinet|provincia|qudqu
severiana|quce|moderno|usu|et|nomin|ah|incoli|wiltesira|vo
catur|eddem|jure|sibi|vemlicat|cohortem|subsidiariam|adjedd
sibi|devonia|et|cornubia|briefli|it|had|the|first|english
king|in|it|was|xq|first|christianitij|among|the|english|and
canterhmj|then|honour|with|the|metropolit|see|all
avhich|give|note|of|honour|prerog
seven hundred and forty-five|grim|godwin|but|the|while|seem|grievous|to|low|r
that|is|goduinsand|which|is|report|to|have|been|the
patrimoni|of|that|godwin|earl|of|kent|under|edward|the
confessor|swallow|into|the|ocean|by|strang|tempest
somewhat|after|the|conquest|and|is|now|as|a|float|isl
or|quicksand|veri|danger|to|sailor|sometim|as|fix
sometim|move|as|the|muse|describ
one|joann|sarisbur|de|nugi|curial|six|cap|eighteen
what|perform|king|cmit|did|among|the|dane|and|nor
wegiaiih|l|y|ennlish|valour|is|appar|in|tliat|until|this|day|the
kentish|men|for|tlicir|singular|virtu|then|shown|have|prerog
alway|to|he|in|the|vantgard|as|wutskir|devonnhhr|and|corn
loitll|i|will|the|rere
hect|boeth|hist|scotic|twelve|et|jo|twin|albion|one
em|i|oi|vor|if
i1iiiin1i|ami|son|pkister3|olildfoud|surrey
date|due
oct|one
i97d
sti
ua
m
six|mii
tc
ptitn|n
gayuoro
print|in|usa
hliinilinrfiiillnmf|librari|facil
aa|zero|six hundred and twenty-three|fifty-nine|three
